docs/topics/capital-deposits/france/guide.mdx, before:

---
title: Deposit capital in France
---

# 🇫🇷 Deposit capital in France

Depositing share capital in France is a multi-step process involving several key players: you and your end user, Swan, and the notary.

- **You and your end user** are responsible for completing **steps 1 through 5**, as well as **step 8**.
- Swan completes step 6.
- The notary completes steps 7 and 9.

:::info General capital deposit information
Review the [**sequence diagram**](../index.mdx#diagram) on the general capital deposit page to see the interactions in more details, plus find information about **statuses**, **shareholders**, and more.
:::

## Step 1: Create capital deposit case {#create-api-case}

Use the API to create a capital deposit case object.
Everything related to your capital deposit, including shareholder information, transfers, and documents, will be collected in the `case` object.

→ Follow the [detailed guide](./guide-create-case.mdx) to create your case, which includes full API mutation examples.

## Step 2: Upload capital deposit documents {#upload-documents}

Use the API to:

1. Generate a unique upload URL for each document you need to upload, and
1. Upload all required documents.

→ Follow the [detailed guide](./guide-upload-documents.mdx) to generate URLs and upload documents, which includes full API mutation examples.

## Step 3: Finalize account creation {#finalize-account-creation}

Following the guide to create a capital deposit case also launches the account creation process for the future company and individual shareholders.

:::caution Company shareholders
Creating accounts for company shareholders doesn't happen automatically when creating the capital deposit case.
Use the guide to [create individual accounts](../../onboarding/individual/guide-create.mdx) for all company shareholders.
:::

The individual Swan accounts serve as **escrow accounts**, and are the only acceptable accounts to which shareholders can transfer their capital deposit funds.

To complete the account creation process:

1. Shareholders need to complete the account onboarding process. [Monitor their progress](../../onboarding/overview/guide-get-info.mdx) if needed.
1. After each shareholder has at least opened their onboarding link, you might choose to use the API to [finalize all account onboardings](../../onboarding/overview/guide-finalize.mdx). Shareholders can also finalize their own onboardings.

## Step 4: Verify account holders {#verify-account-holders}

After the shareholders complete the onboarding process, they must complete account holder verification.

→ Learn more about the [verification process](../../onboarding/account-holders/index.mdx#verification-process) for new account holders.

:::info Identification level
Swan supports multiple levels to verify your identity.
For capital deposits, please meet the following [identification levels](../../users/identifications/index.mdx#levels-processes):

- Shareholder accounts: PVID
- Company accounts: Expert
:::

## Step 5: Transfer capital funds {#transfer-capital-funds}

Each shareholder must transfer their capital share deposit from an **account in their name** to their new Swan account.

Shareholders must **perform this transfer themselves**, and need their **new IBAN** to do so.

A good practice is to configure your integration to send an **automated email** to shareholders with the new IBANs.
Alternately, they can access the IBAN associated with their Swan account through the Web Banking user interface, or you can access it on the Dashboard and share it with them.

## Step 6: Swan validates and updates case {#validate-case}

Here's a quick review.
At this point, you've done the following for your `CapitalDepositCase`:

- Created Swan accounts for shareholders and the future company
- Completed the onboarding and account holder verification processes for those accounts
- Transferred the shareholders' capital funds into their individual Swan accounts
- Uploaded all required documents

To complete step 6, Swan:

- Reviews the entire case.
- Validates the capital deposit in Swan's system.
- Updates the [case status](../index.mdx#case-statuses) to `WaitingForShareDepositCertificate` so it gets sent to the notary.

## Step 7: Notary uploads certificate {#upload-certificate}

After the notary validates this stage of the capital deposit, they respond with a **capital shares deposit certificate**.
This process is typically quick, taking up to **two business days**.
The certificate is assigned the document type `CapitalShareDepositCertificate`.

View the certificate in the capital deposits section of your Dashboard.
You can also retrieve it with the `capitalDepositCase` API query.
Be sure to add `documents` > `downloadUrl` in the explorer.

## Step 8: Upload the register extract (KBIS) {#upload-kbis}

Upload your KBIS using the same document upload process as in step 4.
Choose document type `RegisterExtract`.

→ Follow the [detailed guide](./guide-upload-documents.mdx) to generate an upload URL and upload your KBIS, which includes full API mutation examples.

## Step 9: Notary transfers funds to company account {#transfer-funds-company}

After the notary validates the register extract, they'll transfer your capital deposit funds to the company account you created at the beginning of this process.
This process usually takes up to **two business days**.

:::success Congratulations
As soon as the capital funds arrive in your company's Swan account, the capital deposit process is complete.
**Best of luck with your endeavor!**
:::

Commit message:

DOC-572 add cancel capital deposit mutation

docs/topics/capital-deposits/france/guide.mdx, after:

---
title: Deposit capital in France
---

# 🇫🇷 Deposit capital in France

Depositing share capital in France is a multi-step process involving several key players: you and your end user, Swan, and the notary.

- **You and your end user** are responsible for completing **steps 1 through 5**, as well as **step 8**.
- Swan completes step 6.
- The notary completes steps 7 and 9.

:::info General capital deposit information
Review the [**sequence diagram**](../index.mdx#diagram) on the general capital deposit page to see the interactions in more details, plus find information about **statuses**, **shareholders**, and more.
:::

## Step 1: Create capital deposit case {#create-api-case}

Use the API to create a capital deposit case object.
Everything related to your capital deposit, including shareholder information, transfers, and documents, will be collected in the `case` object.

→ Follow the [detailed guide](./guide-create-case.mdx) to create your case, which includes full API mutation examples.

## Step 2: Upload capital deposit documents {#upload-documents}

Use the API to:

1. Generate a unique upload URL for each document you need to upload, and
1. Upload all required documents.

→ Follow the [detailed guide](./guide-upload-documents.mdx) to generate URLs and upload documents, which includes full API mutation examples.

## Step 3: Finalize account creation {#finalize-account-creation}

Following the guide to create a capital deposit case also launches the account creation process for the future company and individual shareholders.

:::caution Company shareholders
Creating accounts for company shareholders doesn't happen automatically when creating the capital deposit case.
Use the guide to [create individual accounts](../../onboarding/individual/guide-create.mdx) for all company shareholders.
:::

The individual Swan accounts serve as **escrow accounts**, and are the only acceptable accounts to which shareholders can transfer their capital deposit funds.

To complete the account creation process:

1. Shareholders need to complete the account onboarding process. [Monitor their progress](../../onboarding/overview/guide-get-info.mdx) if needed.
1. After each shareholder has at least opened their onboarding link, you might choose to use the API to [finalize all account onboardings](../../onboarding/overview/guide-finalize.mdx). Shareholders can also finalize their own onboardings.

## Step 4: Verify account holders {#verify-account-holders}

After the shareholders complete the onboarding process, they must complete account holder verification.

→ Learn more about the [verification process](../../onboarding/account-holders/index.mdx#verification-process) for new account holders.

:::info Identification level
Swan supports multiple levels to verify your identity.
For capital deposits, please meet the following [identification levels](../../users/identifications/index.mdx#levels-processes):

- Shareholder accounts: PVID
- Company accounts: Expert
:::

## Step 5: Transfer capital funds {#transfer-capital-funds}

Each shareholder must transfer their capital share deposit from an **account in their name** to their new Swan account.

Shareholders must **perform this transfer themselves**, and need their **new IBAN** to do so.

A good practice is to configure your integration to send an **automated email** to shareholders with the new IBANs.
Alternately, they can access the IBAN associated with their Swan account through the Web Banking user interface, or you can access it on the Dashboard and share it with them.

:::caution
After step 5 is complete, it's no longer possible to [cancel the capital deposit](../index.mdx#cancel).
:::

## Step 6: Swan validates and updates case {#validate-case}

Here's a quick review.
At this point, you've done the following for your `CapitalDepositCase`:

- Created Swan accounts for shareholders and the future company
- Completed the onboarding and account holder verification processes for those accounts
- Transferred the shareholders' capital funds into their individual Swan accounts
- Uploaded all required documents

To complete step 6, Swan:

- Reviews the entire case.
- Validates the capital deposit in Swan's system.
- Updates the [case status](../index.mdx#case-statuses) to `WaitingForShareDepositCertificate` so it gets sent to the notary.

## Step 7: Notary uploads certificate {#upload-certificate}

After the notary validates this stage of the capital deposit, they respond with a **capital shares deposit certificate**.
This process is typically quick, taking up to **two business days**.
The certificate is assigned the document type `CapitalShareDepositCertificate`.

View the certificate in the capital deposits section of your Dashboard.
You can also retrieve it with the `capitalDepositCase` API query.
Be sure to add `documents` > `downloadUrl` in the explorer.

## Step 8: Upload the register extract (KBIS) {#upload-kbis}

Upload your KBIS using the same document upload process as in step 4.
Choose document type `RegisterExtract`.

→ Follow the [detailed guide](./guide-upload-documents.mdx) to generate an upload URL and upload your KBIS, which includes full API mutation examples.

## Step 9: Notary transfers funds to company account {#transfer-funds-company}

After the notary validates the register extract, they'll transfer your capital deposit funds to the company account you created at the beginning of this process.
This process usually takes up to **two business days**.

:::success Congratulations
As soon as the capital funds arrive in your company's Swan account, the capital deposit process is complete.
**Best of luck with your endeavor!**
:::
