docs/topics/onboarding/documents/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Supporting document collection
---

# Supporting document collection

import SupportingDocumentCollectionDefinition from '../../definitions/_onboarding-supporting-documents.mdx';

***

**Supporting document collection** *<SupportingDocumentCollectionDefinition />*

***

Swan is sometimes required to collect documents to **verify onboarding details**.
Each **document** is uploaded individually into a **collection**.
After all required documents are uploaded, Swan **reviews the collection**.

## Options for collecting documents {#collect-documents}

There are two primary options to collect required supporting documents:

1. Use the API.
    1. No emails are exchanged.
    1. You'll know every time a document is needed with webhook notifications.
    1. You communicate with your end users to gather the required documents.
    1. Choose the API or the Dashboard for most actions, including uploading documents.
1. Swan communicates directly with you or your end users.
    1. You or your end user receives an email.
    1. You or your end user uploads the document through Web Banking.
    1. You'll be able to see the document after the upload.
    1. There is no trace of your documents in the API if you use the email option.

:::tip Recommendation
Swan recommends **using the API** to manage documents and collections.
:::

## Collection statuses {#collection-statuses}

Each **collection** runs through the following statuses.
This process starts after an onboarding is created.

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'linear' } } }%%
flowchart LR
    CO((Collection<br/>created)) -.-> W[WaitingForDocument]
    W -.-> PR[PendingReview]
    PR -.-> W
    PR --> A[Approved]
    PR --> RJ[Rejected]
    PR --> C[Canceled]
    subgraph F[Final status]
        A
        RJ
        C
    end
    style CO fill:#D4D3D5,stroke:#514F59
    style F fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
```

| Collection status | Explanation |
|---|---|
| `Waiting for document` | Onboarding is created and ready for documents, or documents were submitted but Swan is requesting additional documents<br/><br/>**Next step**: moves to `Pending review` after onboarding is finalized |
| `Pending review` | Onboarding is finalized and you requested a document review<br/><br/>**Next step**: Can move to `Approved`, `Rejected`, or `Canceled` depending on partner actions and Swan decisions (or, if documents are insufficient → `Waiting for document`) |
| `Approved` | Swan approved supporting document collection |
| `Rejected` | Swan rejected supporting document collection |
| `Canceled` | Swan canceled supporting document collection (this could also be at the partner's request) |

## Document statuses {#document-statuses}

Supporting document collections are empty when created.
You need to add documents to these collections as requested.
For each required document, you'll create a document within the collection.

Each **document** added to a collection runs through the following statuses.

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'linear' } } }%%
flowchart LR
    DO((Document<br/>created)) -.-> W[WaitingForUpload]
    W --> NU[NotUploaded]
    W -.-> U[Uploaded]
    U --> V[Validated]
    U --> RF[Refused]
    U --> D[Deleted]
    subgraph F[Final status]
        V
        RF
        D
        NU
    end
    style DO fill:#D4D3D5,stroke:#514F59
    style F fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
```

| Document status | Explanation |
|---|---|
| `Waiting for upload` | URL to upload the document has been generated<br/><br/>**Next step**:<br/><ul><li>If the document is uploaded → `Uploaded`</li><li>If onboarding is finalized before the document is uploaded → `Not uploaded`</li></ul> |
| `Uploaded` | Document is uploaded<br/><br/>**Next step**:<br/><ul><li>If a review is completed on the uploaded document → Status moves to `Validated`, `Refused`, or `Deleted` depending on Partner actions and Swan decisions</li><li>If onboarding is finalized before the uploaded document is reviewed → `Not uploaded`</li></ul> |
| `Validated` | Swan approved the document |
| `Refused` | Swan refused the document |
| `Deleted` | Swan or the partner deleted the document |
| `Not uploaded` | URL was generated but collection was closed before a document was uploaded |

## Document purposes and types {#document-purposes-types}

For all supporting documents, there is a high-level **purpose** and a more specific **type** (`supportingDocumentPurpose` and `supportingDocumentType`).
Both purpose and type can be exposed in the onboarding success payload.

**Common purposes** (not exhaustive):

* `CompanyRegistration`
* `SignedStatus`
* `ProofOfAddress`
* `ProofOfIncome`
* `Other`

## Webhooks {#webhooks}

There are two webhooks associated with supporting documents:

- `SupportingDocumentCollection.Created`
- `SupportingDocumentCollection.Updated`

## Guides {#guides}

Use the following guides to manage required documents for the onboarding process.

* [Add document webhooks](./guide-add-webhooks.mdx)
* [Get a list of required documents](./guide-get-list.mdx)
* [Upload a document](./guide-upload.mdx)
* [Get information about a collection or document](./guide-get-info.mdx)
* [Request a collection review](./guide-request-collection-review.mdx)
* [Delete a document](./guide-delete.mdx)
* [Sandbox](./sandbox.mdx)

Commit message:

Add intro pages for country sections; link documents (#41)

docs/topics/onboarding/documents/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Supporting document collection
---

# Supporting document collection

import SupportingDocumentCollectionDefinition from '../../definitions/_onboarding-supporting-documents.mdx';

***

**Supporting document collection** *<SupportingDocumentCollectionDefinition />*

***

Swan is sometimes required to collect documents to **verify onboarding details**.
Each **document** is uploaded individually into a **collection**.
After all required documents are uploaded, Swan **reviews the collection**.

## Required documents {#required-documents}

The documents required varies significantly depending on where your users are located, whether they're individuals or companies, and more.
The best way to understand what is required from your user is to always [get a list of required documents](./guide-get-list.mdx) when you create the onboarding link.

For company accounts, you can also review country-specific lists for [France](../../../partnership/countries/france/documents.mdx), [Germany](../../../partnership/countries/germany/documents.mdx), and [Spain](../../../partnership/countries/spain/documents.mdx).

## Options for collecting documents {#collect-documents}

There are two primary options to collect required supporting documents:

1. Use the API.
    1. No emails are exchanged.
    1. You'll know every time a document is needed with webhook notifications.
    1. You communicate with your end users to gather the required documents.
    1. Choose the API or the Dashboard for most actions, including uploading documents.
1. Swan communicates directly with you or your end users.
    1. You or your end user receives an email.
    1. You or your end user uploads the document through Web Banking.
    1. You'll be able to see the document after the upload.
    1. There is no trace of your documents in the API if you use the email option.

:::tip Recommendation
Swan recommends **using the API** to manage documents and collections.
:::

## Collection statuses {#collection-statuses}

Each **collection** runs through the following statuses.
This process starts after an onboarding is created.

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'linear' } } }%%
flowchart LR
    CO((Collection<br/>created)) -.-> W[WaitingForDocument]
    W -.-> PR[PendingReview]
    PR -.-> W
    PR --> A[Approved]
    PR --> RJ[Rejected]
    PR --> C[Canceled]
    subgraph F[Final status]
        A
        RJ
        C
    end
    style CO fill:#D4D3D5,stroke:#514F59
    style F fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
```

| Collection status | Explanation |
|---|---|
| `Waiting for document` | Onboarding is created and ready for documents, or documents were submitted but Swan is requesting additional documents<br/><br/>**Next step**: moves to `Pending review` after onboarding is finalized |
| `Pending review` | Onboarding is finalized and you requested a document review<br/><br/>**Next step**: Can move to `Approved`, `Rejected`, or `Canceled` depending on partner actions and Swan decisions (or, if documents are insufficient → `Waiting for document`) |
| `Approved` | Swan approved supporting document collection |
| `Rejected` | Swan rejected supporting document collection |
| `Canceled` | Swan canceled supporting document collection (this could also be at the partner's request) |

## Document statuses {#document-statuses}

Supporting document collections are empty when created.
You need to add documents to these collections as requested.
For each required document, you'll create a document within the collection.

Each **document** added to a collection runs through the following statuses.

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'linear' } } }%%
flowchart LR
    DO((Document<br/>created)) -.-> W[WaitingForUpload]
    W --> NU[NotUploaded]
    W -.-> U[Uploaded]
    U --> V[Validated]
    U --> RF[Refused]
    U --> D[Deleted]
    subgraph F[Final status]
        V
        RF
        D
        NU
    end
    style DO fill:#D4D3D5,stroke:#514F59
    style F fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
```

| Document status | Explanation |
|---|---|
| `Waiting for upload` | URL to upload the document has been generated<br/><br/>**Next step**:<br/><ul><li>If the document is uploaded → `Uploaded`</li><li>If onboarding is finalized before the document is uploaded → `Not uploaded`</li></ul> |
| `Uploaded` | Document is uploaded<br/><br/>**Next step**:<br/><ul><li>If a review is completed on the uploaded document → Status moves to `Validated`, `Refused`, or `Deleted` depending on Partner actions and Swan decisions</li><li>If onboarding is finalized before the uploaded document is reviewed → `Not uploaded`</li></ul> |
| `Validated` | Swan approved the document |
| `Refused` | Swan refused the document |
| `Deleted` | Swan or the partner deleted the document |
| `Not uploaded` | URL was generated but collection was closed before a document was uploaded |

## Document purposes and types {#document-purposes-types}

For all supporting documents, there is a high-level **purpose** and a more specific **type** (`supportingDocumentPurpose` and `supportingDocumentType`).
Both purpose and type can be exposed in the onboarding success payload.

**Common purposes** (not exhaustive):

* `CompanyRegistration`
* `SignedStatus`
* `ProofOfAddress`
* `ProofOfIncome`
* `Other`

## Webhooks {#webhooks}

There are two webhooks associated with supporting documents:

- `SupportingDocumentCollection.Created`
- `SupportingDocumentCollection.Updated`

## Guides {#guides}

Use the following guides to manage required documents for the onboarding process.

* [Add document webhooks](./guide-add-webhooks.mdx)
* [Get a list of required documents](./guide-get-list.mdx)
* [Upload a document](./guide-upload.mdx)
* [Get information about a collection or document](./guide-get-info.mdx)
* [Request a collection review](./guide-request-collection-review.mdx)
* [Delete a document](./guide-delete.mdx)
* [Sandbox](./sandbox.mdx)
