docs/topics/accounts/billing/guide-compliant-billing.mdx, before:

---
title: Build a compliant billing offer
---

# Build a compliant billing offer

All banking fees are legally framed and supervised by a regulator.
In France, the regulator is the *Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution*.
Some fees are capped or forbidden because they are considered abusive, depending on the account holder's status.
Therefore, only regulated entities can bill banking fees because they're subject to the regulator's supervision.

Swan Partners aren't [acting as regulated financial entities](../../../partnership/index.mdx), so you **can't bill directly** for banking fees.

However, if the product you've built brings value in the preparation of payment orders (or in some other way), you're authorized to bill for this functionality under the appropriate denomination.
In order to do so, your product must add value for your client.

:::caution Verification
Swan must **verify your billing offer** regarding the payment-related options before you go live to confirm you aren't billing for unauthorized fees.
:::

## Authorizations {#authorizations}

1. You can charge your customers for all the functionalities not considered banking fees.
1. If your product improves or eases the preparation of payment orders, you can bill that function directly.
1. You can present the functionalities considered as banking fees to your customers.

## Restrictions {#restrictions}

1. You can't charge your customers for banking-related fees. For example, you can't charge fees for opening an account, scheduling a payment, or using a card.
1. You can't present your offer with wording reserved by law to the banking and payment services bill. The banking fee descriptions are harmonized by law in order to guarantee better comprehension by all customers. Its use is exclusively dedicated to the presentation of banking fees.

:::info Example
Your product helps detect the amount to be paid, the execution date, and the counterparts of an operation.
It fills out the payment order to be sent by your customer.

- ✓ You can bill for the functionalities of detecting the data and filling out the payment order.
- ☒ You can't bill for the execution of the payment order itself, or for the opening of the account.
:::

## ✓ Billable fees {#classifications-yes}

The following fees **aren't** classified as banking fees and are **billable**:

- Fees connected to collecting debts (classification: debt collection)
- Preparation of payment orders (classification: software)
- Fee for shipping a debit card (classification: other)
- Improper use of the account (classification: other)

## ☒ Non-billable fees {#classifications-no}

The following fees are **classified as banking fees** and are **non-billable**:

1. Subscription to remote banking services
1. Subscription to products including account status SMS alerts (per alert)
1. Subscription to products including account status SMS alerts (per month)
1. Payment acquisition services
1. Account funding by credit card
1. Payment card with systematic authorization
1. Deferred debit card
1. Immediate debit card
1. Provision of a credit card
1. Provision of a debit card
1. Fee for closing the account
1. Stop fees for direct debit
1. Account administration
1. Fee per inactive account
1. Monthly provision of a statement of transactions carried out on the account, in paper format
1. Fees per instant transfer
1. Payment by card
1. Cash withdrawal
1. Receipt of a non-SEPA transfer
1. Transfer
1. Document search fee (drafting a circulation letter for a legal entity holder)
1. The following fees are classified as **incidents fees**, in addition to banking:
    1. Intervention fee
    1. Fee for the notification letter for unauthorized account in debt
    1. Fee for non execution of a standing order due to lack of funds
    1. Fee for direct debit rejections due to an insufficient balance
    1. Stop fees for the card
    1. Processing of judicial or administrative seizures, notice to third party holders
    1. Charges for seizure of account
    1. Fee for information missing or incorrect related to a transfer
    1. Charges for notifying the *Banque de France* of a decision to withdraw a credit card

Commit message:

Add accounts, account onboarding, and some transactions feedback

docs/topics/accounts/billing/guide-compliant-billing.mdx, after:

---
title: Build a compliant billing offer
---

# Build a compliant billing offer

All banking fees are legally framed and supervised by a regulator.
In France, the regulator is the *Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution*.
Some fees are capped or forbidden because they are considered abusive, depending on the account holder's status.
Therefore, only regulated entities can bill banking fees because they're subject to the regulator's supervision.

Swan Partners aren't [acting as regulated financial entities](../../../partnership/index.mdx), so you **can't bill directly** for banking fees.

However, if the product you've built brings value in the preparation of payment orders (or in some other way), you're authorized to bill for this functionality under the appropriate denomination.
In order to do so, your product must add value for your client.

:::caution Verification
Swan must **verify your billing offer** regarding the payment-related options before you go live to confirm you aren't billing for unauthorized fees.
:::

## Authorizations {#authorizations}

1. You can charge your customers for all the functionalities not considered banking fees.
1. If your product improves or eases the preparation of payment orders, you can bill that function directly.
1. You can present the functionalities considered as banking fees to your customers.

## Restrictions {#restrictions}

1. You can't charge your customers for banking-related fees. For example, you can't charge fees for opening an account, scheduling a payment, or using a card.
1. You can't present your offer with wording reserved by law to the banking and payment services bill. The banking fee descriptions are harmonized by law in order to guarantee better comprehension by all customers. Its use is exclusively dedicated to the presentation of banking fees.

:::info Example
Your product helps detect the amount to be paid, the execution date, and the counterparts of an operation.
It fills out the payment order to be sent by your customer.

- ✓ You can bill for the functionalities of detecting the data and filling out the payment order.
- ☒ You can't bill for the execution of the payment order itself, or for the opening of the account.
:::

## ✓ Billable fees {#classifications-yes}

Some fees **aren't** classified as banking fees.
**You as a Swan Partner can bill** for the following fees:

- Fees connected to collecting debts (classification: debt collection)
- Preparation of payment orders (classification: software)
- Fee for shipping a debit card (classification: other)
- Improper use of the account (classification: other)

## ☒ Non-billable fees {#classifications-no}

The following fees are **classified as banking fees** and **you can't bill** for them:

1. Subscription to remote banking services
1. Subscription to products including account status SMS alerts (per alert)
1. Subscription to products including account status SMS alerts (per month)
1. Payment acquisition services
1. Account funding by credit card
1. Payment card with systematic authorization
1. Deferred debit card
1. Immediate debit card
1. Provision of a credit card
1. Provision of a debit card
1. Fee for closing the account
1. Stop fees for direct debit
1. Account administration
1. Fee per inactive account
1. Monthly provision of a statement of transactions carried out on the account, in paper format
1. Fees per instant transfer
1. Payment by card
1. Cash withdrawal
1. Receipt of a non-SEPA transfer
1. Transfer
1. Document search fee (drafting a circulation letter for a legal entity holder)
1. The following fees are classified as **incidents fees**, in addition to banking:
    1. Intervention fee
    1. Fee for the notification letter for unauthorized account in debt
    1. Fee for non execution of a standing order due to lack of funds
    1. Fee for direct debit rejections due to an insufficient balance
    1. Stop fees for the card
    1. Processing of judicial or administrative seizures, notice to third party holders
    1. Charges for seizure of account
    1. Fee for information missing or incorrect related to a transfer
    1. Charges for notifying the *Banque de France* of a decision to withdraw a credit card
