docs/topics/accounts/billing/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Billing
---

# Billing


## Overview {#overview}

Swan **charges banking fees** directly for each account as defined in the Terms and Conditions.
Swan deducts banking fees in almost real-time directly from the Swan account.
For each fee charged to the account, a transaction is created automatically that is included on the monthly account statement.

**Billing begins automatically** when an account is created, for both company and individual accounts.
For all accounts created before March 2023, the billing module was activated on 1 March 2023.

To help you and your users keep track of fees, Swan **generates a dedicated invoice** automatically for all Swan company account holders, generated at the same time as the [monthly account statement](../index.mdx#statements).
The invoice lists all banking fees charged during the **monthly billing period**, which **begins** on the **first of each month**.

## Swan fees {#fees-swan}

Swan charges different banking and merchant fees.
When the Swan API detects transactions with associated banking fees, the fees are deducted from the account automatically, except fees related to **payment incidents**.

Fees related to **payment incidents** (for example, direct debit rejections due to an insufficient balance), are deducted 14 days after being communicated.
The `FeesOut` transaction appears instantly on the transaction history with the status `Upcoming`.
The transaction is booked automatically 14 days later.

If the account's `Available` balance isn't enough to cover the banking fees, the account balance falls into the negative.
This is the only situation in which a Swan [account balance](../index.mdx#balances) can be negative.

### Fee transactions {#fees-swan-transactions}

For fee transactions, Swan created a dedicated `Fees` payment product and two transaction types:

- `FeesOut`: A fee is debited from a Swan account
- `FeesIn`: A fee is credited to a Swan account

### Standard fees {#fees-swan-standard}

Fee amounts are not listed because they can vary by contract.
Please check your Terms and Conditions for your precise fees.

| Fee | Billed with Value Added Tax (VAT) | Booked |
| --- | :---: | --- |
| Cash withdrawals from cash machines (ATM) in euros | ☒ No | Immediately |
| Cash withdrawals from cash machines (ATM) *not* in euros | ☒ No | Immediately |
| Payment for goods and services in stores or remotely *not* denominated and carried out in euros | ☒ No | Immediately |
| Rejection of an outgoing direct debit due to an insufficient balance | ☒ No | 14 days after disclosure of the charges on the account |
| Improper use of the account<br /><br />*Attempted or actual actions that are against the law or contrary to this account agreement* | ✓ Yes | Immediately |
| Handling legal or administrative garnishments, third party debt orders | ☒ No | 14 days after disclosure of the charges on the account |
| Preparation of a circularization letter for a legal entity holder | ✓ Yes | Immediately |
| Preparation of a letter certifying the existence of an account with Swan | ✓ Yes | Immediately |
| Handling fees for management of an unauthorised overdraft | ☒ No | 14 days after disclosure of the charges on the account |
| Adding funds to the account by bank card | ✓ Yes | Immediately |
| Call to Customer Service | ☒ No | n/a |
| SEPA Direct Debit merchant fees for transactions up to €200 | ✓ Yes | Immediately |
| SEPA Direct Debit merchant fees for transactions over €200 | ✓ Yes | Immediately |
| Returned merchant SEPA Direct Debit transactions | ✓ Yes | Immediately |

## Charging custom fees {#fees-custom}

Swan **shares revenue** from fees with Partners.
However, the **fees you can charge are strictly regulated**.
Refer to the [guide to build a compliant billing offer](./guide-compliant-billing.mdx) to learn what you can and can't charge.

You can customize banking fees and some other types of fees for your project.
In customizing your fees, you might choose to either (1) absorb some of the fees yourself, or (2) charge your users markup on top of Swan's fees.
Allowing for markup is Swan's way of sharing fee revenue with you.

Every time you **change your list of fees**, Swan automatically updates the financial conditions in your Swan Terms and Conditions and sends them to all current users.
There is a two-month waiting period before the changes automatically take effect for your current users.
New users follow the updated Terms and Conditions from the start.

To customize your fees, please contact your account manager.

## Invoices {#invoices}

Swan **generates a dedicated invoice** automatically for all **company** account holders, generated at the same time as the [monthly account statement](../index.mdx#statements).
The invoice lists all banking fees charged during the **monthly billing period**, which begins on the first of each month.

If a **fee is refunded** and the corresponding invoice was already generated, Swan generates a refund note for the refunded amount.
Access refund notes the same way you access invoices.
If **no banking fees were charged** during the billing period, Swan doesn't generate an invoice.

Invoices are generated in the [account language](../index.mdx#language), and labels for each fee transaction are also in the account language.
You or your user can change the account language; doing so impacts new invoices and fees, but won't change existing fee labels or previously generated invoices.

Subscribe to the `AccountInvoice.Generated` [webhook](../../../developers/using-api/webhooks.mdx) to receive a notification each time an invoice is generated.
You can also access company account invoices with the API, from your Dashboard, or on Swan's Web Banking interface.

:::info individual accounts
Monthly invoices *aren't* generated for **individual** accounts.

Instead, fees are included on the standard [monthly account statement](../index.mdx#statements), and an annual statement is provided automatically once a year.

Individual account holders can also review fee transactions in their transaction history.
If you're not using Swan's Web Banking interface, make sure to include fees in your implementation of the [transaction history](https://swan-io.github.io/swan-partner-frontend/specs/banking/history).
:::

### VAT number {#invoices-vat}

Optionally, provide your account holder's Value Added Tax, or VAT, number.
If provided, Swan adds the VAT number to the invoice.

You can provide the VAT number several ways:

- When [creating the onboarding link](../../onboarding/company/guide-create.mdx) for the new company account
- When [updating a company onboarding](../../onboarding/company/guide-update.mdx)
- When [updating an account holder](https://explorer.swan.io?query=bXV0YXRpb24gQWRkVmF0TnVtYmVyIHsKICB1cGRhdGVBY2NvdW50SG9sZGVyKAogICAgaW5wdXQ6IHsKICAgICAgYWNjb3VudEhvbGRlcklkOiAiJFlPVVJfQUNDT1VOVF9IT0xERVJfSUQiCiAgICAgIHZhdE51bWJlcjogIiRBQ0NPVU5UX0hPTERFUl9WQVQiCiAgICB9CiAgKSB7CiAgICAuLi4gb24gVXBkYXRlQWNjb3VudEhvbGRlclN1Y2Nlc3NQYXlsb2FkIHsKICAgICAgX190eXBlbmFtZQogICAgICBhY2NvdW50SG9sZGVyIHsKICAgICAgICB1cGRhdGVkRGF0ZQogICAgICB9CiAgICB9CiAgICAuLi4gb24gQWNjb3VudEhvbGRlck5vdEZvdW5kUmVqZWN0aW9uIHsKICAgICAgX190eXBlbmFtZQogICAgICBtZXNzYWdlCiAgICB9CiAgICAuLi4gb24gVmFsaWRhdGlvblJlamVjdGlvbiB7CiAgICAgIF9fdHlwZW5hbWUKICAgICAgbWVzc2FnZQogICAgICBmaWVsZHMgewogICAgICAgIGNvZGUKICAgICAgICBtZXNzYWdlCiAgICAgICAgcGF0aAogICAgICB9CiAgICB9CiAgfQp9Cg%3D%3D&tab=api) using the `updateAccountHolder` mutation

:::note European companies outside of France
If you provide a valid VAT number for a company registered in a European country other than France, Swan automatically applies the **reverse charge mechanism**.
With the reverse charge mechanism, **VAT isn't added** and **must be paid by the end user** in accordance with article 283-2 of the French General Tax Code.
:::

## Guides {#guides}

- [Build a compliant billing offer](./guide-compliant-billing.mdx)
- [Get list of invoices](./guide-get-list.mdx)
- [Get invoice details](./guide-get-details.mdx)
- [Sandbox](./sandbox.mdx)

Commit message:

DOC-387 annual fee statement line

docs/topics/accounts/billing/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Billing
---

# Billing


## Overview {#overview}

Swan **charges banking fees** directly for each account as defined in the Terms and Conditions.
Swan deducts banking fees in almost real-time directly from the Swan account.
For each fee charged to the account, a transaction is created automatically that is included on the monthly account statement.

**Billing begins automatically** when an account is created, for both company and individual accounts.
For all accounts created before March 2023, the billing module was activated on 1 March 2023.

To help you and your users keep track of fees, Swan **generates a dedicated invoice** automatically for all Swan company account holders, generated at the same time as the [monthly account statement](../index.mdx#statements).
The invoice lists all banking fees charged during the **monthly billing period**, which **begins** on the **first of each month**.

## Swan fees {#fees-swan}

Swan charges different banking and merchant fees.
When the Swan API detects transactions with associated banking fees, the fees are deducted from the account automatically, except fees related to **payment incidents**.

Fees related to **payment incidents** (for example, direct debit rejections due to an insufficient balance), are deducted 14 days after being communicated.
The `FeesOut` transaction appears instantly on the transaction history with the status `Upcoming`.
The transaction is booked automatically 14 days later.

If the account's `Available` balance isn't enough to cover the banking fees, the account balance falls into the negative.
This is the only situation in which a Swan [account balance](../index.mdx#balances) can be negative.

### Fee transactions {#fees-swan-transactions}

For fee transactions, Swan created a dedicated `Fees` payment product and two transaction types:

- `FeesOut`: A fee is debited from a Swan account
- `FeesIn`: A fee is credited to a Swan account

### Standard fees {#fees-swan-standard}

Fee amounts are not listed because they can vary by contract.
Please check your Terms and Conditions for your precise fees.

| Fee | Billed with Value Added Tax (VAT) | Booked |
| --- | :---: | --- |
| Cash withdrawals from cash machines (ATM) in euros | ☒ No | Immediately |
| Cash withdrawals from cash machines (ATM) *not* in euros | ☒ No | Immediately |
| Payment for goods and services in stores or remotely *not* denominated and carried out in euros | ☒ No | Immediately |
| Rejection of an outgoing direct debit due to an insufficient balance | ☒ No | 14 days after disclosure of the charges on the account |
| Improper use of the account<br /><br />*Attempted or actual actions that are against the law or contrary to this account agreement* | ✓ Yes | Immediately |
| Handling legal or administrative garnishments, third party debt orders | ☒ No | 14 days after disclosure of the charges on the account |
| Preparation of a circularization letter for a legal entity holder | ✓ Yes | Immediately |
| Preparation of a letter certifying the existence of an account with Swan | ✓ Yes | Immediately |
| Handling fees for management of an unauthorised overdraft | ☒ No | 14 days after disclosure of the charges on the account |
| Adding funds to the account by bank card | ✓ Yes | Immediately |
| Call to Customer Service | ☒ No | n/a |
| SEPA Direct Debit merchant fees for transactions up to €200 | ✓ Yes | Immediately |
| SEPA Direct Debit merchant fees for transactions over €200 | ✓ Yes | Immediately |
| Returned merchant SEPA Direct Debit transactions | ✓ Yes | Immediately |

## Charging custom fees {#fees-custom}

Swan **shares revenue** from fees with Partners.
However, the **fees you can charge are strictly regulated**.
Refer to the [guide to build a compliant billing offer](./guide-compliant-billing.mdx) to learn what you can and can't charge.

You can customize banking fees and some other types of fees for your project.
In customizing your fees, you might choose to either (1) absorb some of the fees yourself, or (2) charge your users markup on top of Swan's fees.
Allowing for markup is Swan's way of sharing fee revenue with you.

Every time you **change your list of fees**, Swan automatically updates the financial conditions in your Swan Terms and Conditions and sends them to all current users.
There is a two-month waiting period before the changes automatically take effect for your current users.
New users follow the updated Terms and Conditions from the start.

To customize your fees, please contact your account manager.

## Invoices {#invoices}

Swan **generates a dedicated invoice** automatically for all **company** account holders, generated at the same time as the [monthly account statement](../index.mdx#statements).
The invoice lists all banking fees charged during the **monthly billing period**, which begins on the first of each month.
**Annual fee statements** are included at the end of January's invoice.

If a **fee is refunded** and the corresponding invoice was already generated, Swan generates a refund note for the refunded amount.
Access refund notes the same way you access invoices.
If **no banking fees were charged** during the billing period, Swan doesn't generate an invoice.

Invoices are generated in the [account language](../index.mdx#language), and labels for each fee transaction are also in the account language.
You or your user can change the account language; doing so impacts new invoices and fees, but won't change existing fee labels or previously generated invoices.

Subscribe to the `AccountInvoice.Generated` [webhook](../../../developers/using-api/webhooks.mdx) to receive a notification each time an invoice is generated.
You can also access company account invoices with the API, from your Dashboard, or on Swan's Web Banking interface.

:::info individual accounts
Monthly invoices *aren't* generated for **individual** accounts.

Instead, fees are included on the standard [monthly account statement](../index.mdx#statements), and an annual statement is provided automatically once a year.

Individual account holders can also review fee transactions in their transaction history.
If you're not using Swan's Web Banking interface, make sure to include fees in your implementation of the [transaction history](https://swan-io.github.io/swan-partner-frontend/specs/banking/history).
:::

### VAT number {#invoices-vat}

Optionally, provide your account holder's Value Added Tax, or VAT, number.
If provided, Swan adds the VAT number to the invoice.

You can provide the VAT number several ways:

- When [creating the onboarding link](../../onboarding/company/guide-create.mdx) for the new company account
- When [updating a company onboarding](../../onboarding/company/guide-update.mdx)
- When [updating an account holder](https://explorer.swan.io?query=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%3D%3D&tab=api) using the `updateAccountHolder` mutation

:::note European companies outside of France
If you provide a valid VAT number for a company registered in a European country other than France, Swan automatically applies the **reverse charge mechanism**.
With the reverse charge mechanism, **VAT isn't added** and **must be paid by the end user** in accordance with article 283-2 of the French General Tax Code.
:::

## Guides {#guides}

- [Build a compliant billing offer](./guide-compliant-billing.mdx)
- [Get list of invoices](./guide-get-list.mdx)
- [Get invoice details](./guide-get-details.mdx)
- [Sandbox](./sandbox.mdx)
