docs/partnership/document-center/company-registration/netherlands.mdx, before:

---
title: 🇳🇱 Netherlands
---

# Proof of registration for Dutch companies

import DocumentsIntro from '../partials/_intro-registration.mdx';

<DocumentsIntro country="the 🇳🇱 Netherlands" />

| Legal entity | Proof of registration | Articles of association | UBO∗ declaration or sworn statement | Other documents |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Eenmanszaak | KVK Extract | ☒ Not required | ☒ Not required | <ul><li>Legal representative's identity document, *and*</li><li>Legal representative's proof of address</li></ul>*If requested by Swan* |
| Besloten Vennootschap | KVK Extract | ✓ **Required**<br />if requested by Swan | ✓ **Required**<br />if requested by Swan | At least one of the following:<br /><ul><li>Legal representative's identity document</li><li>UBO's proof of address</li></ul> |
| Vereniging<br /><br />Stichting | KVK Extract | ✓ **Required**<br />if requested by Swan | ✓ **Required** | <ul><li>[Meeting minutes](./index.mdx#requirements-minutes), house rules (Huishoudelijk Reglement), member list, voting records, or board member documents, *and*</li><li>Tax documents, *and*</li><li>At least one of the following:<ul><li>Legal representative's identity document</li><li>UBO's proof of address</li></ul></li></ul> |
| Vereniging van Eigenaars (VvE) | KVK Extract | ✓ **Required**<br />if requested by Swan | *Not applicable* | <ul><li>[Meeting minutes](./index.mdx#requirements-minutes), house rules (Huishoudelijk Reglement), member list, voting records, or board member documents, *and*</li><li>Tax documents</li></ul> |

∗ A **UBO** is an Ultimate Beneficial Owner.

:::info Reasons for other documents
- For **Vereniging** and **Stichting**, other documents are required to demonstrate who is funding the association and to provide proof of the association's legal representative.
- For **Vereniging**, they also explain the purpose of the association.
- For **Vereniging van Eigenaars (VvE)**, other documents demonstrate who is in charge of the association, such as the Chairperson or President, as well as the association's treasury.
:::

Commit message:

DOC-1191/convert-all-existing-mass-spoilers-chained-details-into-better-ux (#373)
* Initial commit

* Further inconsistent emojis replacements

* Added Optional and Conditional emojis

* Fixed Optional spacing

* Update index.mdx

* Fixed permissions table

* Update index.mdx

* Update index.mdx

* Fixing tabs on smaller screens

* Removed Tab import requirements & laid groundwork for conditional indicators

* Restyled conditional fields

* Clickable tags & smart-scrolling

* Redux

* Restyled support badges

* Update styles.css

* Added vanilla Yes/No elements

* Update styles.css

* Restyled sup/unsup

* Applied across the docs

docs/partnership/document-center/company-registration/netherlands.mdx, after:

---
title: 🇳🇱 Netherlands
---

# Proof of registration for Dutch companies

:::tip Document retrieval
Whenever possible, Swan independently retrieves required documents. If retrieval isn't possible, Swan may request the documents listed on this page to open an account for your company registered in the 🇳🇱 Netherlands. 
:::

<span>
<p>Documents must be written in the **Latin alphabet**, and must be comprehensive, accurate, and compliant with legal requirements.</p>
</span>

<FieldRequirementsLegend />

| Legal entity | Proof of registration | Articles of association | Ultimate Beneficial Owner (UBO) declaration or sworn statement | Other documents |
| --- | --- | :---: | :---: | --- |
| Eenmanszaak | KVK Extract | <Opt /> | <Opt /> | <ul><li>Legal representative's identity document, *and*</li><li>Legal representative's proof of address</li></ul>*If requested by Swan* |
| Besloten Vennootschap | KVK Extract | <Cnd /> ∗ | <Cnd /> ∗ | At least one of the following:<br /><ul><li>Legal representative's identity document</li><li>UBO's proof of address</li></ul> |
| Vereniging<br /><br />Stichting | KVK Extract | <Cnd /> ∗ | <Req /> | <ul><li>[Meeting minutes](./index.mdx#requirements-minutes), house rules (Huishoudelijk Reglement), member list, voting records, or board member documents, *and*</li><li>Tax documents, *and*</li><li>At least one of the following:<ul><li>Legal representative's identity document</li><li>UBO's proof of address</li></ul></li></ul> |
| Vereniging van Eigenaars (VvE) | KVK Extract | <Cnd /> ∗ | *Not applicable* | <ul><li>[Meeting minutes](./index.mdx#requirements-minutes), house rules (Huishoudelijk Reglement), member list, voting records, or board member documents, *and*</li><li>Tax documents</li></ul> |

∗ if requested by Swan

:::info Reasons for other documents
- For **Vereniging** and **Stichting**, other documents are required to demonstrate who is funding the association and to provide proof of the association's legal representative.
- For **Vereniging**, they also explain the purpose of the association.
- For **Vereniging van Eigenaars (VvE)**, other documents demonstrate who is in charge of the association, such as the Chairperson or President, as well as the association's treasury.
:::
