docs/topics/merchants/online/sdd/index.mdx, before:

---
title: SEPA Direct Debit
---

# SEPA Direct Debit for merchants

## Overview {#overview}

Merchants can accept payments with SEPA Direct Debit.

import DirectDebitCrossLinks from '../../partials/_direct-debit-other.mdx';

<DirectDebitCrossLinks />

## Direct debit advantages {#advantages}

import DirectDebitAdvantages from '../../partials/_direct-debit-advantages.mdx';

<DirectDebitAdvantages />

:::note SEPA transaction fees
Refer to [billing](../../../accounts/billing/index.mdx#fees-swan-standard) for information about fees associated with merchant SEPA Direct Debit transactions.
:::

## Schemes: Core & B2B {#schemes}

Swan offers two SEPA Direct Debit schemes: `Core` and `B2B`.
You can choose to use one or both schemes according to your use case.

import DirectDebitTable from '../../../partials/_direct-debit-scheme-table.mdx';

<DirectDebitTable directDebitScheme="Core" creditorType="Creditor" psp="the debtor's payment services provider (PSP)" incomingOutgoing="3 business days after execution date" />

## SEPA Creditor Identifier (SCI) {#sci}

SEPA Creditor Identifiers (SCIs) are unique reference codes that identify each creditor participating in a SEPA Direct Debit scheme.
These identifiers are unique to each merchant and help banks sort transactions by merchant to ensure those transactions are routed correctly.

SCIs are composed of several elements, including:

1. ISO two-letter country code
1. Two-digit checksum
1. Creditor business activity code
1. National identification feature

For example, `FR12ABC0123456789` is an SCI from France (`FR`) with the check number `12`, and the business activity code `ABC`, ending with the national identification feature that changes country to country (`0123456789`).

### SCI options {#sci-options}

Swan provides an SCI, and merchants can also choose to use their own.

Both meet all SCI requirements.
It's important to note, however, that **Swan's provided SCI always mentions Swan**, which appears on a user's transaction history.

Merchants might prefer to **use their own SCI for a more customized user experience**.
Users would see the merchant's name instead of Swan on their transaction history, **reducing friction** and the risk of transactions looking suspicious to users.
The merchant's bank would also see the label Swan in disputes, so having the merchant name appear instead could also **ease bank relations**.

Merchants can **change their SCI** from Swan's to a personal SCI.
[Update their profile](./guide-update.mdx) by calling the `requestMerchantPaymentMethodsUpdate` mutation.

Regardless of the type of SCI, it's good practice to **include your merchant's name** in the `label` field for all SEPA Direct Debit transactions.

:::note Personal SCI
If a merchant in France expresses interest in using their own SCI but they don't have one, Swan can help them get their identifier.
Open a support request with Swan to start the process.
:::

## Rolling reserve {#rolling-reserve}

import RollingReserve from '../../partials/_rolling-reserve.mdx';

<RollingReserve />

| Payment method | Rolling reserve | Default amount |
| --- | --- | --- |
| SEPA Direct Debit - Core | ✓ **Yes** | Determined by a merchant profile risk assessment |
| SEPA Direct Debit - B2B | ✓ **Yes** | 100% over 3 business days |

## Payment amount limit {#payment-limit}
For security and risk management, Swan may apply a **payment amount limit** to a single SEPA Direct Debit (SDD) payment. 
This limit defines the maximum amount a user can spend in one SDD transaction. 
If a payment **exceeds this limit**, the API returns a `ForbiddenRejection` error.

To [query this limit](./guide-request.mdx), use the `paymentAmountLimit` field at the `merchantPaymentMethod` level in the API.

## Payment mandates {#mandates}

A payment mandate is a written authorization from a debtor that allows a creditor to initiate a direct debit transaction from their account.
Without a mandate, the creditor can't legally debit the debtor's account.

Payment mandates are mandatory for all SEPA Direct Debit transactions.
One payment mandate can cover as many debit transactions as needed between the debtor and the merchant, provided the mandate is `Recurrent`.

### Declaring mandates {#mandates-declare}

Partners are responsible for obtaining and declaring payment mandates.
You can either **include them in your Terms and Conditions** or **generate mandates** for debtors to sign with an electronic signature.

You must [declare mandates to Swan](./guide-declare.mdx) using the API.
You can declare them before or after they're signed.
If you declare a mandate before it's signed, make sure the debtor signs it before you issue the first direct debit.

After declaring the mandate, you might choose to upload it to your Dashboard as a PDF.
This isn't mandatory but can be helpful if a debtor's bank requests a copy of the signed mandate.

:::info B2B mandates
B2B mandates must be declared to the debtor's bank.
:::

### One-off mandates {#mandates-oneoff}

Some mandates can only be used one time.

When the sequence value is `OneOff` (instead of `Recurrent`), the received SEPA Direct Debit payment mandate is **canceled automatically** after the transaction is executed, regardless of the transaction status.

### Required information {#mandates-info}

In addition to a clear description of payment rights, SEPA Direct Debit payment mandates must include the following information.
Otherwise, the mandate is considered invalid.

| Information | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Mandate title | Choose one of the following options:<ul><li>Core SEPA Direct Debit Mandate</li><li>B2B SEPA Direct Debit Mandate</li></ul> |
| Mandate reference | <ul><li>Unique identifier for the mandate</li><li>Visible on the debtor's bank statement</li></ul> |
| Payment type | Choose one of the following options:<ul><li>Recurrent</li><li>One-off</li></ul> |
| Merchant (beneficiary) information | <ul><li>Merchant name</li><li>Merchant account holder address</li></ul> |
| Debtor information | <ul><li>Debtor's IBAN</li><li>Debtor's address</li></ul> |

## Settlement date and booked time {#settlement}

import SddBookedTime from '../../../partials/_sdd-booked.mdx';

<SddBookedTime />

import DayTimeStandard from '../../../partials/_day-time.mdx';

<DayTimeStandard />

## R-transactions {#r-transactions}

:::caution R-transaction availability
Returns and refunds are only possible with **Core** and can be requested up to 8 calendar weeks after due date and time.
:::

### Rejected {#rejected}

When a SEPA Direct Debit Core transaction is **rejected**, the debtor's account is not debited.

A SEPA Direct Debit Core transaction might be rejected for the following reasons (this list is not exhaustive):

- Incorrect account number
- Debtor canceled the payment mandate
- Account is closed
- Insufficient funds
- Technical issues
- Debtor requested refusal of the debit before the date and time of the settlement execution

When a SEPA Direct Debit Core transaction is rejected, regardless of the reason, the merchant receives a notification and can attempt a new SEPA Direct Debit at a later date.

### Returned {#returned}

When a SEPA Direct Debit Core transaction is **returned**, the debtor's account is debited the amount, but the payment is reversed and the funds return to the debtor's account.

A SEPA Direct Debit Core transaction might be returned for the following reasons (this list is not exhaustive):

- Debtor disputes the payment
- Insufficient funds
- Invalid payment mandate (example: the mandate was not declared to the debtor bank)

When a SEPA Direct Debit Core transaction is returned, regardless of the reason, the merchant is notified about the return.
They can investigate the reason for return and take whatever action is necessary, which might be refunding the payment or disputing the return with the debtor's bank.

## Guides {#guides}

- [Accept payments with SEPA Direct Debit (step-by-step)](./guide-sdd.mdx)
- [Request SEPA Direct Debit payment method](./guide-request.mdx)
- [Declare a payment mandate](./guide-declare.mdx)
- [Initiate a SEPA Direct Debit transaction](./guide-initiate.mdx)
- [Update SEPA Direct Debit payment method](./guide-update.mdx)
- [Sandbox](./sandbox.mdx)

Commit message:

fixup! DOC-1042 Rolling reserve webhooks

docs/topics/merchants/online/sdd/index.mdx, after:

---
title: SEPA Direct Debit
---

# SEPA Direct Debit for merchants

## Overview {#overview}

Merchants can accept payments with SEPA Direct Debit.

import DirectDebitCrossLinks from '../../partials/_direct-debit-other.mdx';

<DirectDebitCrossLinks />

## Direct debit advantages {#advantages}

import DirectDebitAdvantages from '../../partials/_direct-debit-advantages.mdx';

<DirectDebitAdvantages />

:::note SEPA transaction fees
Refer to [billing](../../../accounts/billing/index.mdx#fees-swan-standard) for information about fees associated with merchant SEPA Direct Debit transactions.
:::

## Schemes: Core & B2B {#schemes}

Swan offers two SEPA Direct Debit schemes: `Core` and `B2B`.
You can choose to use one or both schemes according to your use case.

import DirectDebitTable from '../../../partials/_direct-debit-scheme-table.mdx';

<DirectDebitTable directDebitScheme="Core" creditorType="Creditor" psp="the debtor's payment services provider (PSP)" incomingOutgoing="3 business days after execution date" />

## SEPA Creditor Identifier (SCI) {#sci}

SEPA Creditor Identifiers (SCIs) are unique reference codes that identify each creditor participating in a SEPA Direct Debit scheme.
These identifiers are unique to each merchant and help banks sort transactions by merchant to ensure those transactions are routed correctly.

SCIs are composed of several elements, including:

1. ISO two-letter country code
1. Two-digit checksum
1. Creditor business activity code
1. National identification feature

For example, `FR12ABC0123456789` is an SCI from France (`FR`) with the check number `12`, and the business activity code `ABC`, ending with the national identification feature that changes country to country (`0123456789`).

### SCI options {#sci-options}

Swan provides an SCI, and merchants can also choose to use their own.

Both meet all SCI requirements.
It's important to note, however, that **Swan's provided SCI always mentions Swan**, which appears on a user's transaction history.

Merchants might prefer to **use their own SCI for a more customized user experience**.
Users would see the merchant's name instead of Swan on their transaction history, **reducing friction** and the risk of transactions looking suspicious to users.
The merchant's bank would also see the label Swan in disputes, so having the merchant name appear instead could also **ease bank relations**.

Merchants can **change their SCI** from Swan's to a personal SCI.
[Update their profile](./guide-update.mdx) by calling the `requestMerchantPaymentMethodsUpdate` mutation.

Regardless of the type of SCI, it's good practice to **include your merchant's name** in the `label` field for all SEPA Direct Debit transactions.

:::note Personal SCI
If a merchant in France expresses interest in using their own SCI but they don't have one, Swan can help them get their identifier.
Open a support request with Swan to start the process.
:::

## Rolling reserve {#rolling-reserve}

import RollingReserve from '../../partials/_rolling-reserve.mdx';

<RollingReserve />

| Payment method | Rolling reserve | Default amount |
| --- | --- | --- |
| SEPA Direct Debit - Core | ✓ **Yes** | Determined by a merchant profile risk assessment |
| SEPA Direct Debit - B2B | ✓ **Yes** | 100% over 3 business days |

You can use the `TransactionRollingReserve.Updated`and `TransactionRollingReserve.Released` [webhooks](/developers/using-api/webhooks/#events-transactions) to be notified when a transaction's rolling reserve is updated and when the funds are released.

## Payment amount limit {#payment-limit}
For security and risk management, Swan may apply a **payment amount limit** to a single SEPA Direct Debit (SDD) payment. 
This limit defines the maximum amount a user can spend in one SDD transaction. 
If a payment **exceeds this limit**, the API returns a `ForbiddenRejection` error.

To [query this limit](./guide-request.mdx), use the `paymentAmountLimit` field at the `merchantPaymentMethod` level in the API.

## Payment mandates {#mandates}

A payment mandate is a written authorization from a debtor that allows a creditor to initiate a direct debit transaction from their account.
Without a mandate, the creditor can't legally debit the debtor's account.

Payment mandates are mandatory for all SEPA Direct Debit transactions.
One payment mandate can cover as many debit transactions as needed between the debtor and the merchant, provided the mandate is `Recurrent`.

### Declaring mandates {#mandates-declare}

Partners are responsible for obtaining and declaring payment mandates.
You can either **include them in your Terms and Conditions** or **generate mandates** for debtors to sign with an electronic signature.

You must [declare mandates to Swan](./guide-declare.mdx) using the API.
You can declare them before or after they're signed.
If you declare a mandate before it's signed, make sure the debtor signs it before you issue the first direct debit.

After declaring the mandate, you might choose to upload it to your Dashboard as a PDF.
This isn't mandatory but can be helpful if a debtor's bank requests a copy of the signed mandate.

:::info B2B mandates
B2B mandates must be declared to the debtor's bank.
:::

### One-off mandates {#mandates-oneoff}

Some mandates can only be used one time.

When the sequence value is `OneOff` (instead of `Recurrent`), the received SEPA Direct Debit payment mandate is **canceled automatically** after the transaction is executed, regardless of the transaction status.

### Required information {#mandates-info}

In addition to a clear description of payment rights, SEPA Direct Debit payment mandates must include the following information.
Otherwise, the mandate is considered invalid.

| Information | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Mandate title | Choose one of the following options:<ul><li>Core SEPA Direct Debit Mandate</li><li>B2B SEPA Direct Debit Mandate</li></ul> |
| Mandate reference | <ul><li>Unique identifier for the mandate</li><li>Visible on the debtor's bank statement</li></ul> |
| Payment type | Choose one of the following options:<ul><li>Recurrent</li><li>One-off</li></ul> |
| Merchant (beneficiary) information | <ul><li>Merchant name</li><li>Merchant account holder address</li></ul> |
| Debtor information | <ul><li>Debtor's IBAN</li><li>Debtor's address</li></ul> |

## Settlement date and booked time {#settlement}

import SddBookedTime from '../../../partials/_sdd-booked.mdx';

<SddBookedTime />

import DayTimeStandard from '../../../partials/_day-time.mdx';

<DayTimeStandard />

## R-transactions {#r-transactions}

:::caution R-transaction availability
Returns and refunds are only possible with **Core** and can be requested up to 8 calendar weeks after due date and time.
:::

### Rejected {#rejected}

When a SEPA Direct Debit Core transaction is **rejected**, the debtor's account is not debited.

A SEPA Direct Debit Core transaction might be rejected for the following reasons (this list is not exhaustive):

- Incorrect account number
- Debtor canceled the payment mandate
- Account is closed
- Insufficient funds
- Technical issues
- Debtor requested refusal of the debit before the date and time of the settlement execution

When a SEPA Direct Debit Core transaction is rejected, regardless of the reason, the merchant receives a notification and can attempt a new SEPA Direct Debit at a later date.

### Returned {#returned}

When a SEPA Direct Debit Core transaction is **returned**, the debtor's account is debited the amount, but the payment is reversed and the funds return to the debtor's account.

A SEPA Direct Debit Core transaction might be returned for the following reasons (this list is not exhaustive):

- Debtor disputes the payment
- Insufficient funds
- Invalid payment mandate (example: the mandate was not declared to the debtor bank)

When a SEPA Direct Debit Core transaction is returned, regardless of the reason, the merchant is notified about the return.
They can investigate the reason for return and take whatever action is necessary, which might be refunding the payment or disputing the return with the debtor's bank.

## Guides {#guides}

- [Accept payments with SEPA Direct Debit (step-by-step)](./guide-sdd.mdx)
- [Request SEPA Direct Debit payment method](./guide-request.mdx)
- [Declare a payment mandate](./guide-declare.mdx)
- [Initiate a SEPA Direct Debit transaction](./guide-initiate.mdx)
- [Update SEPA Direct Debit payment method](./guide-update.mdx)
- [Sandbox](./sandbox.mdx)
