docs/topics/onboarding/individual/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Individual account onboarding
---

# Individual account onboarding

import IndividualOnboardingDefinition from '../../definitions/_onboarding-individual.mdx';

> <IndividualOnboardingDefinition />

## Process overview {#overview}

import OnboardingOverview from '../partials/_overview.mdx';

<OnboardingOverview accountType="an individual" />

## Individual onboarding form {#onboarding-form}

Through the individual onboarding form, Swan collects the following information:

1. User's **email address**.
1. User's **country of residence** and **residence address**.
1. Basic details about the **user's employment** and **financial situation**. This information allows Swan to perform two essential tasks:
    * During onboarding, Swan completes an identity analysis (Know Your Customer, or KYC).
    * For the lifetime of the account, Swan monitors for fraud.
1. User [**signs up**](../../users/index.mdx#signup) for Swan.

## Identification recommendations {#identification-recommendations}

Swan must verify the identity of every user.
Swan supports multiple [**identification processes**](../../users/identifications/index.mdx#levels-processes), and some require a [**first transfer**](../account-holders/index.mdx#first-transfer).
For individual onboarding, the following levels are recommended based on the account country.

| Account country | Recommended level<br/>for individuals | Other supported levels |
|---|---|---|
| 🇫🇷 France | **<Yes /> PVID** | Expert + first transfer<br/>QES |
| 🇩🇪 Germany | **<Yes /> QES + first transfer** | *none* |
| 🇮🇹 Italy | **<Yes /> QES** | Expert + first transfer |
| 🇳🇱 Netherlands | **<Yes /> Expert** | QES<br/>PVID |
| 🇪🇸 Spain | **<Yes /> QES** | Expert + first transfer<br/>PVID + first transfer |

## Country requirements for individual accounts {#country-reqs}

import CountryReqs from '../partials/_country-reqs.mdx';

<CountryReqs thisAccountType="individual" thatAccountType="company" />

For individual accounts, use the `onboardIndividualAccountHolder` mutation to collect the following information according to your desired account country.

<FieldRequirementsLegend />

| API field | 🇫🇷<br/>France | 🇩🇪<br/>Germany | 🇮🇹<br/>Italy | 🇳🇱<br/>Netherlands | 🇪🇸<br/>Spain |
|---|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|`accountCountry`| <Req /><br/>(`FRA`) | <Req /><br/>(`DEU`) | <Req /><br/>(`ITA`) | <Req /><br/>(`NLD`) | <Req /><br/>(`ESP`) |
|`accountName`|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|
|`email`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`employmentStatus`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`language`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`monthlyIncome`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`redirectUrl`|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|
|`residencyAddress.addressLine1`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`residencyAddress.addressLine2`|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|
|`residencyAddress.city`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`residencyAddress.country`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`residencyAddress.postalCode`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`residencyAddress.state`|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|
|`taxIdentificationNumber`|<Opt />| <Cnd /> ∗ | <Req /> |<Opt />|<Opt />|

∗ *If the `accountCountry` is Germany, the account holder has 90 days to provide their Tax ID Number when opening an account.
Otherwise, the account will be suspended.*

## User flow diagrams {#diagrams}

## Individual account onboarding

<details>
  <summary>End-user perspective of an individual account onboarding</summary>
  <div>
    <iframe
      src="https://www.figma.com/embed?embed_host=share&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.figma.com%2Ffile%2F7K15ufXZK7Zgan770kkTmq%2FUser-flow-diagrams%3Ftype%3Ddesign%26node-id%3D1%253A1806%26mode%3Ddesign%26t%3DaDVSURjSnOITsBKl-1"
      allowFullScreen
      style={{ width: "100%", height: 400 }}
    ></iframe>
  </div>
</details>

## Guides {#guides}

Use the following guides to start and complete the individual onboarding process.

* [Create an individual onboarding link](./guide-create.mdx)
* [Update an individual onboarding](./guide-update.mdx)

Commit message:

DOC-1193/individual-account-onboarding-belgium-coming-soon

docs/topics/onboarding/individual/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Individual account onboarding
---

# Individual account onboarding

import IndividualOnboardingDefinition from '../../definitions/_onboarding-individual.mdx';

> <IndividualOnboardingDefinition />

## Process overview {#overview}

import OnboardingOverview from '../partials/_overview.mdx';

<OnboardingOverview accountType="an individual" />

## Individual onboarding form {#onboarding-form}

Through the individual onboarding form, Swan collects the following information:

1. User's **email address**.
1. User's **country of residence** and **residence address**.
1. Basic details about the **user's employment** and **financial situation**. This information allows Swan to perform two essential tasks:
    * During onboarding, Swan completes an identity analysis (Know Your Customer, or KYC).
    * For the lifetime of the account, Swan monitors for fraud.
1. User [**signs up**](../../users/index.mdx#signup) for Swan.

## Identification recommendations {#identification-recommendations}

Swan must verify the identity of every user.
Swan supports multiple [**identification processes**](../../users/identifications/index.mdx#levels-processes), and some require a [**first transfer**](../account-holders/index.mdx#first-transfer).
For individual onboarding, the following levels are recommended based on the account country.

| Account country | Recommended level<br/>for individuals | Other supported levels |
|---|---|---|
| 🇫🇷 France | **<Yes /> PVID** | Expert + first transfer<br/>QES |
| 🇩🇪 Germany | **<Yes /> QES + first transfer** | *none* |
| 🇮🇹 Italy | **<Yes /> QES** | Expert + first transfer |
| 🇳🇱 Netherlands | **<Yes /> Expert** | QES<br/>PVID |
| 🇪🇸 Spain | **<Yes /> QES** | Expert + first transfer<br/>PVID + first transfer |

## Country requirements for individual accounts {#country-reqs}

import CountryReqs from '../partials/_country-reqs.mdx';

<CountryReqs thisAccountType="individual" thatAccountType="company" />

For individual accounts, use the `onboardIndividualAccountHolder` mutation to collect the following information according to your desired account country.

<FieldRequirementsLegend />

| API field | 🇫🇷<br/>France | 🇩🇪<br/>Germany | 🇮🇹<br/>Italy | 🇳🇱<br/>Netherlands | 🇪🇸<br/>Spain |
|---|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|`accountCountry`| <Req /><br/>(`FRA`) | <Req /><br/>(`DEU`) | <Req /><br/>(`ITA`) | <Req /><br/>(`NLD`) | <Req /><br/>(`ESP`) |
|`accountName`|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|
|`email`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`employmentStatus`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`language`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`monthlyIncome`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`redirectUrl`|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|
|`residencyAddress.addressLine1`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`residencyAddress.addressLine2`|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|
|`residencyAddress.city`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`residencyAddress.country`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`residencyAddress.postalCode`| <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> | <Req /> |
|`residencyAddress.state`|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|<Opt />|
|`taxIdentificationNumber`|<Opt />| <Cnd /> ∗ | <Req /> |<Opt />|<Opt />|

∗ *If the `accountCountry` is Germany, the account holder has 90 days to provide their Tax ID Number when opening an account.
Otherwise, the account will be suspended.*

:::tip Belgian IBANs coming soon
🇧🇪 **Belgium** will be available in November 2025, expanding Swan's local IBAN coverage to six European markets. [Learn more about Belgian IBAN support →](/preview/belgian-ibans)
:::

## User flow diagrams {#diagrams}

## Individual account onboarding

<details>
  <summary>End-user perspective of an individual account onboarding</summary>
  <div>
    <iframe
      src="https://www.figma.com/embed?embed_host=share&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.figma.com%2Ffile%2F7K15ufXZK7Zgan770kkTmq%2FUser-flow-diagrams%3Ftype%3Ddesign%26node-id%3D1%253A1806%26mode%3Ddesign%26t%3DaDVSURjSnOITsBKl-1"
      allowFullScreen
      style={{ width: "100%", height: 400 }}
    ></iframe>
  </div>
</details>

## Guides {#guides}

Use the following guides to start and complete the individual onboarding process.

* [Create an individual onboarding link](./guide-create.mdx)
* [Update an individual onboarding](./guide-update.mdx)
