docs/topics/payments/credit-transfers/sepa/guide-verify-beneficiary.mdx, before:

---
title: Verify a beneficiary
---

# Verify a beneficiary

Verify a beneficiary with the API.
[Verifying beneficiaries](./index.mdx#beneficiary-verification) reduces the risk of errors and potential fraud.

## Guide {#guide}

1. Call the `beneficiaryVerification` query.
1. Add your beneficiary's `name` and `iban`, as well as the `debtorAccountId` (lines 4-6).
1. Add all the information you'd like to review in the payload.

## Query {#query}

<a href="https://explorer.master.oina.ws?query=cXVlcnkgVmVyaWZ5QmVuZWZpY2lhcnkgewogIGJlbmVmaWNpYXJ5VmVyaWZpY2F0aW9uKAogICAgaW5wdXQ6IHsKICAgICAgaWJhbjogIiRCRU5FRklDSUFSWV9JQkFOIgogICAgICBuYW1lOiAiQmVuZWZpY2lhcnkgbmFtZSIKICAgICAgZGVidG9yQWNjb3VudElkOiAiJFNXQU5fREVCVE9SX0FDQ09VTlRfSUQiCiAgICB9CiAgKSB7CiAgICAuLi4gb24gQmVuZWZpY2lhcnlNYXRjaCB7CiAgICAgIF9fdHlwZW5hbWUKICAgICAgYWNjb3VudEhvbGRlclR5cGUKICAgICAgYWNjb3VudFN0YXR1cwogICAgfQogICAgLi4uIG9uIEJlbmVmaWNpYXJ5VHlwbyB7CiAgICAgIF9fdHlwZW5hbWUKICAgICAgbmFtZVN1Z2dlc3Rpb24KICAgICAgYWNjb3VudFN0YXR1cwogICAgICBhY2NvdW50SG9sZGVyVHlwZQogICAgfQogICAgLi4uIG9uIEludmFsaWRCZW5lZmljaWFyeVZlcmlmaWNhdGlvbiB7CiAgICAgIF9fdHlwZW5hbWUKICAgICAgbWVzc2FnZQogICAgfQogICAgLi4uIG9uIEJlbmVmaWNpYXJ5TWlzbWF0Y2ggewogICAgICBfX3R5cGVuYW1lCiAgICAgIG5hbWVTdWdnZXN0aW9uCiAgICAgIGFjY291bnRIb2xkZXJSZXNpZGVuY3lDaXR5CiAgICAgIGFjY291bnRIb2xkZXJUeXBlCiAgICAgIGFjY291bnRTdGF0dXMKICAgIH0KICB9Cn0K&tab=api" className="explorer-badge">Open in API Explorer</a>

```graphql {4-6,9,14,20,24} showLineNumbers
query VerifyBeneficiary {
  beneficiaryVerification(
    input: {
      iban: "$BENEFICIARY_IBAN"
      name: "Beneficiary name"
      debtorAccountId: "$SWAN_DEBTOR_ACCOUNT_ID"
    }
  ) {
    ... on BeneficiaryMatch {
      __typename
      accountHolderType
      accountStatus
    }
    ... on BeneficiaryTypo {
      __typename
      nameSuggestion
      accountStatus
      accountHolderType
    }
    ... on InvalidBeneficiaryVerification {
      __typename
      message
    }
    ... on BeneficiaryMismatch {
      __typename
      nameSuggestion
      accountHolderResidencyCity
      accountHolderType
      accountStatus
    }
  }
}
```

## Payload {#payload}

The payload shows a beneficiary verification that **didn't** pass because the account wasn't found.

```json {4} showLineNumbers
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "message": "Account was not found.",
      "path": [
        "beneficiaryVerification"
      ],
      "extensions": {
        "code": "Account_NotFound",
        "meta": {
          "id": "$BENEFICIARY_VERIFICATION_ID"
        },
        "stacktrace": "Error: Account was not found.\n    at /home/node/app/src/domain/iban/use-cases/beneficiary-verification/beneficiary-verification.use-case.js:107:266\n    at /home/node/app/node_modules/fp-ts/lib/FromEither.js:36:97\n    at pipe (/home/node/app/node_modules/fp-ts/lib/function.js:301:23)\n    at /home/node/app/src/domain/iban/use-cases/beneficiary-verification/beneficiary-verification.use-case.js:107:214\n    at /home/node/app/node_modules/fp-ts/lib/EitherT.js:83:97\n    at /home/node/app/node_modules/fp-ts/lib/Task.js:133:41\n    at process.processTicksAndRejections (node:internal/process/task_queues:95:5)\n    at async toPromise (/home/node/app/node_modules/@swan-io/utils/lib/fp/index.js:26:12)\n    at async descriptor.value (/home/node/app/node_modules/@swan-io/metrics/metrics/decorators/default.js:12:28)"
      }
    }
  ],
  "data": {
    "beneficiaryVerification": null
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Tabs content + Verif page warning

docs/topics/payments/credit-transfers/sepa/guide-verify-beneficiary.mdx, after:

---
title: Verify a beneficiary
---

# Verify a beneficiary

Verify a beneficiary with the API.
[Verifying beneficiaries](./index.mdx#beneficiary-verification) reduces the risk of errors and potential fraud.

:::warning
Starting October 9, 2025, Swan automatically includes [Verification of Payee (VoP)](verification-of-payee) in all SEPA Credit Transfers per the EU Instant Payments Regulation.
:::

## Guide {#guide}

1. Call the `beneficiaryVerification` query.
1. Add your beneficiary's `name` and `iban`, as well as the `debtorAccountId` (lines 4-6).
1. Add all the information you'd like to review in the payload.

## Query {#query}

<a href="https://explorer.master.oina.ws?query=cXVlcnkgVmVyaWZ5QmVuZWZpY2lhcnkgewogIGJlbmVmaWNpYXJ5VmVyaWZpY2F0aW9uKAogICAgaW5wdXQ6IHsKICAgICAgaWJhbjogIiRCRU5FRklDSUFSWV9JQkFOIgogICAgICBuYW1lOiAiQmVuZWZpY2lhcnkgbmFtZSIKICAgICAgZGVidG9yQWNjb3VudElkOiAiJFNXQU5fREVCVE9SX0FDQ09VTlRfSUQiCiAgICB9CiAgKSB7CiAgICAuLi4gb24gQmVuZWZpY2lhcnlNYXRjaCB7CiAgICAgIF9fdHlwZW5hbWUKICAgICAgYWNjb3VudEhvbGRlclR5cGUKICAgICAgYWNjb3VudFN0YXR1cwogICAgfQogICAgLi4uIG9uIEJlbmVmaWNpYXJ5VHlwbyB7CiAgICAgIF9fdHlwZW5hbWUKICAgICAgbmFtZVN1Z2dlc3Rpb24KICAgICAgYWNjb3VudFN0YXR1cwogICAgICBhY2NvdW50SG9sZGVyVHlwZQogICAgfQogICAgLi4uIG9uIEludmFsaWRCZW5lZmljaWFyeVZlcmlmaWNhdGlvbiB7CiAgICAgIF9fdHlwZW5hbWUKICAgICAgbWVzc2FnZQogICAgfQogICAgLi4uIG9uIEJlbmVmaWNpYXJ5TWlzbWF0Y2ggewogICAgICBfX3R5cGVuYW1lCiAgICAgIG5hbWVTdWdnZXN0aW9uCiAgICAgIGFjY291bnRIb2xkZXJSZXNpZGVuY3lDaXR5CiAgICAgIGFjY291bnRIb2xkZXJUeXBlCiAgICAgIGFjY291bnRTdGF0dXMKICAgIH0KICB9Cn0K&tab=api" className="explorer-badge">Open in API Explorer</a>

```graphql {4-6,9,14,20,24} showLineNumbers
query VerifyBeneficiary {
  beneficiaryVerification(
    input: {
      iban: "$BENEFICIARY_IBAN"
      name: "Beneficiary name"
      debtorAccountId: "$SWAN_DEBTOR_ACCOUNT_ID"
    }
  ) {
    ... on BeneficiaryMatch {
      __typename
      accountHolderType
      accountStatus
    }
    ... on BeneficiaryTypo {
      __typename
      nameSuggestion
      accountStatus
      accountHolderType
    }
    ... on InvalidBeneficiaryVerification {
      __typename
      message
    }
    ... on BeneficiaryMismatch {
      __typename
      nameSuggestion
      accountHolderResidencyCity
      accountHolderType
      accountStatus
    }
  }
}
```

## Payload {#payload}

The payload shows a beneficiary verification that **didn't** pass because the account wasn't found.

```json {4} showLineNumbers
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "message": "Account was not found.",
      "path": [
        "beneficiaryVerification"
      ],
      "extensions": {
        "code": "Account_NotFound",
        "meta": {
          "id": "$BENEFICIARY_VERIFICATION_ID"
        },
        "stacktrace": "Error: Account was not found.\n    at /home/node/app/src/domain/iban/use-cases/beneficiary-verification/beneficiary-verification.use-case.js:107:266\n    at /home/node/app/node_modules/fp-ts/lib/FromEither.js:36:97\n    at pipe (/home/node/app/node_modules/fp-ts/lib/function.js:301:23)\n    at /home/node/app/src/domain/iban/use-cases/beneficiary-verification/beneficiary-verification.use-case.js:107:214\n    at /home/node/app/node_modules/fp-ts/lib/EitherT.js:83:97\n    at /home/node/app/node_modules/fp-ts/lib/Task.js:133:41\n    at process.processTicksAndRejections (node:internal/process/task_queues:95:5)\n    at async toPromise (/home/node/app/node_modules/@swan-io/utils/lib/fp/index.js:26:12)\n    at async descriptor.value (/home/node/app/node_modules/@swan-io/metrics/metrics/decorators/default.js:12:28)"
      }
    }
  ],
  "data": {
    "beneficiaryVerification": null
  }
}
```
