docs/topics/users/consent/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Consent
---

# Consent

## Overview {#overview}

Consent is built-in to Swan's offer, meaning you don't handle it yourself.
In fact, you can't—it's part of Swan's [regulatory responsibility](../../../partnership/index.mdx#license) to manage consent.
Additionally, **consent can't be deactivated**.

Some operations at Swan are considered sensitive, and **sensitive operations always require user consent**.
To initiate sensitive operations **using the API**, you need authenticate with an access token.
You can either use a [user access token](../../../developers/using-api/authentication/index.mdx#tokens-user) in the name of the user wanting to make the payment, or with a [project access token](../../../developers/using-api/authentication/index.mdx#tokens-project) impersonating that user.
Users must consent to granting a user access token.

## Strong Customer Authentication (SCA) {#sca}

To protect the user and comply with legal requirements, users can only provide consent through Strong Customer Authentication (SCA).

SCA is a requirement of the EU Revised Directive on Payment Services (PSD2) to payment service providers within the European Economic Area.
The requirement mandates **multi-factor authentication** to increase the security of electronic payments.
All Swan consent processes use SCA.

### SCA user experience {#sca-user}

Though there's much more happening technically, the user experience to consent to sensitive operations is straightforward and typically quick. 

1. The user **opens the consent URL**.
    1. **Computer**: they receive the consent link in a text message from Swan or a notification from you. The user opens the link and follows the instructions.
    1. **Mobile device**: they're redirected to the correct page.
1. If the user **doesn't receive a text message**, they can either request the text message be sent again or consent by scanning a QR code.
1. The user **verifies their identity** by entering their 6-digit passcode or using biometrics.
1. The user is then redirected to your predefined `redirectUrl`.

<details>
  <summary>Video completing Strong Customer Authentication on mobile</summary>
    <div>
        <img src={require("../../../images/topics/users/consent/sca-flow.gif").default} alt="Map of Swan coverage for individual and company accounts" />
    </div>
</details>

:::caution Text message and link validity
**Text messages are valid for 15 minutes**, and consent links **time out 20 minutes after** being opened.
:::

If you refer to the [consent sequence diagrams](#consent-diagrams), this user experience occurs when the user opens the consent link and completes the consent request.
Look for the arrow description `Uses page to consent to the operation`.

## List of sensitive operations {#sensitive}

The following mutations concern sensitive operations and require consent.
All links lead to the mutation's API Reference page.

<h3 id="sensitive-accounts">Accounts & onboarding</h3>

- [`closeAccount`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/close-account/)
- [`finalizeOnboarding`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/finalize-onboarding/)

<h3 id="sensitive-account-memberships">Account memberships</h3>

- [`addAccountMembership`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-account-membership/)
- [`addAccountMemberships`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-account-memberships/)
- [`suspendAccountMembership`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/suspend-account-membership/)
- [`resumeAccountMembership`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/resume-account-membership/)
- [`updateAccountMembership`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/update-account-membership/)

<h3 id="sensitive-cards">Cards</h3>

- **Adding cards**:
    - [`addCard`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-card/)
    - [`addCards`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-cards/)
    - [`addCardsWithGroupDelivery`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-cards-with-group-delivery/)
    - [`addDigitalCard`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-digital-card/)
    - [`addSingleUseVirtualCard`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-single-use-virtual-card/)
    - [`addSingleUseVirtualCards`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-single-use-virtual-cards/)
- **Virtual cards**:
    - [`updateCard`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/update-card/)
    - [`viewCardNumbers`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/view-card-numbers/)
- **Physical cards**:
    - [`printPhysicalCard`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/print-physical-card/)
    - [`activatePhysicalCard`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/activate-physical-card/)
    - [`resumePhysicalCard`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/resume-physical-card/)
    - [`viewPhysicalCardNumbers`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/view-physical-card-numbers/)
    - [`viewPhysicalCardPin`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/view-physical-card-pin/)

<h3 id="sensitive-funding">Funding</h3>

- [`addDirectDebitFundingSource`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-direct-debit-funding-source/)
- [`initiateFundingRequest`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/initiate-funding-request/)

<h3 id="sensitive-payments-transactions">Payments and transactions</h3>

- **Credit transfers**:
    - [`initiateCreditTransfers`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/initiate-credit-transfers/)
    - [`initiateInternationalCreditTransfer`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/initiate-international-credit-transfer/)
    - [`scheduleStandingOrder`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/schedule-standing-order/)
- **Direct debit payment mandates**:
    - [`addReceivedSepaDirectDebitB2bMandate`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-received-sepa-direct-debit-b2-b-mandate/)
    - [`enableReceivedDirectDebitMandate`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/enable-received-direct-debit-mandate/)
    - [`updateReceivedSepaDirectDebitB2bMandate`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/update-received-sepa-direct-debit-b2-b-mandate/)
- **Other**:
    - [`refund`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/refund/)

## Multi-consents {#multi-consent}

Multi-consent allows you to group multiple consents for sensitive operations into a single consent, so your user can **consent to multiple operations at the same time**.
For example, your user could consent to adding a card, adding an account membership, and initiating a credit transfer, all at once.
Creating a multi-consent is an asynchronous operation, and you can group up to **100 child consents** into one multi-consent.

When the user consents to the multi-consent, the status changes to `OperationComitting` and the user is informed their multi-consent is complete.
Note that child consents aren't processed immediately.

As the multi-consent executes, if any child consent fails, the status of the whole multi-consent changes to `Failed`.
Any child consents that were `Accepted` before the failed child consent remain valid.
Any child consents that were still waiting to be executed are canceled.

Since execution is asynchronous, consider subscribing to [consent webhooks](../../../developers/using-api/webhooks.mdx#events-consent) to stay updated on the progress of each child consent.

Learn how to **create a multi-consent** in the [dedicated guide](./guide-create-multiconsent.mdx).

## Notification preferences {#notifications}

You can specify how your user would like to receive consent notifications, referred to as their preferred channel.
Swan offers two possibilities:

1. Swan sends a text message to the user, which includes the SCA link the user needs to open on their mobile device.
1. You receive a notification, then you send the SCA link to your user. This is only possible if you have your own mobile app.

If you choose to receive the notification and send it to your user, you'll need to configure your notifications.
Learn how to **specify notification preferences** and **configure your own notifications** in the [dedicated guide](./guide-configure-notifications.mdx).

:::info Web Banking interface
If you're using Swan's Web Banking interface, Swan sends a text message to your users for one-time passwords, logins, and consents, regardless of preferred channel and notification configuration.
:::

## Server-to-server consent {#s2s}

If you have thousands of operations waiting for consent, requiring consent directly from the user could become a blocker.
**Server-to-server (S2S) consent bypasses direct user intervention**, making bulk actions that your integrations might require easier to execute.

For example, you might consider using server-to-server consent to generate single-use virtual cards to pay merchants, perform batch payments, and refund transfers.

Human interaction for SCA is always required, but Swan makes an exception for your own accounts.
If you want to implement it, you can use S2S consent to approve sensitive operations.
Note that your implementation requires approval from Swan.

All [sensitive operations](#sensitive) are eligible for server-to-server consent, except for three operations that allow you to view highly sensitive information: `viewCardNumbers`, `viewPhysicalCardNumbers`, and `viewPhysicalCardPin`.

Learn how to **implement server-to-server consent** in the [dedicated guide](./guide-implement-s2s.mdx).

### Key cryptography {#s2s-cryptography}

Server-to-server consent relies on key cryptography respecting a specific algorithm.
Swan won't accept keys that don't respect this algorithm.
The model involves a pair of keys, public and private.

Keys must respect the following algorithm:

- ECDSA with reputed strong curve (such as p-256)
- Key type must be exported in **JWK**

You'll [install the public key](./guide-implement-s2s.mdx#install-public) on your Dashboard, and it will be used to verify the server signature for all S2S operations.
You're required to keep the corresponding private key secure on your side.

import ReplacePublicKey from './_s2s-replace-key.mdx';

<ReplacePublicKey />

### Role of projects and legal reps {#s2s-project-legal-rep}

For security and regulatory purposes, server-to-server consent is **bound to a project**, more specifically to the **project's [legal representative](../../../glossary.mdx#legal-representative)**.
You can't apply S2S consent configured in one project to operations in another project.
Instead, implement S2S consent in both projects independently.

The keys, both public and private, are attributed to the project's legal representative.
Only the legal rep can perform operations with server-to-server consent.
With consent, you can also [impersonate the legal rep](../../../developers/using-api/authentication/index.mdx#tokens-project-impersonate) with a project access token.

Any operation required to [set up or modify S2S consent](./guide-implement-s2s.mdx) (such as installing the public key or adding IP addresses) must be consented to by the legal rep using [Strong Customer Authentication](./index.mdx#sca).

## Consent statuses {#statuses}

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'linear' } } }%%
flowchart LR
    SOI((Sensitive<br/>operation initiated)) -.-> C[Created]
    C -.-> S[Started]
    C -.-> CD[Canceled]
    S -.-> CD
    S -.-> OC[OperationCommitting]
    OC --> A[Accepted]
    S --> A
    S -.-> CR[CustomerRefused]
    S -.-> E[Expired]
    OC -.-> FA[Failed]
    subgraph V[Valid consent]
        A
    end
    subgraph F[Final status]
        CD
        CR
        E
        FA
        V
    end
    style SOI fill:#D4D3D5,stroke:#514F59
    style F fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
    style V fill:#dfedf2,stroke:#4d8296,stroke-width:3px
```

| Consent status | Explanation |
|---|---|
| `Created` | A sensitive operation was initiated, triggering the creation of a consent request automatically. The user who needs to consent hasn't opened the consent URL yet.  |
| `Started` | The user opened the consent URL but hasn't consented yet. |
| `Accepted` | The user consented successfully. |
| `Canceled` | Consent requests can be `Canceled` by you or your user as long as the consent has a non-final status. `Canceled` also applies to child consents when a preceding child consent `Failed`. |
| `CustomerRefused` | The user refused to consent to the sensitive operation. |
| `Expired` | The user opened the consent URL, but didn't consent within the 20-minute validity window. This also applies if the user tries to consent but can't manage to complete a valid consent within the 20 minutes. |
| `OperationCommitting`<br />*(multi-consent only)* | A multi-consent was executed, and one or more child consents are still in progress.<br /><br />**Next steps:**<ul><li>If consent is provided for all child consents, meaning all child consents have the status `Accepted`, the status of the multi-consent changes to `Accepted`.</li><li>If a single child consent has the status `Failed`, the multi-consent is also assigned the status `Failed`. </li></ul> |
| `Failed`<br />*(multi-consent only)* | A child consent `Failed`, meaning the multi-consent also `Failed`. All child consents that are already `Accepted` remain valid, but all child consents that haven't been executed yet are `Canceled`. |

## Consent sequence diagrams {#consent-diagrams}

### Diagram: Computer {#consent-diagrams-computer}

If your user is on a computer, their consent flow depends on your [notification settings](#notifications).
They'll either receive a **text message from Swan** (arrows 6-8) or a **notification from you** (arrows 9-12).

Users are guided through a  similar but slightly different flow for online payments that require [3-D Secure consent](../../payments/cards/index.mdx#3ds).

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
autonumber
participant UC as User's computer
participant P as Partner (you)
participant S as Swan
participant UM as User's mobile device
    UC ->> P: Launches sensitive operation
    P ->> S: Calls sensitive mutation or query
    S ->> P: Returns consent
    P ->> UC: Redirects to consent URL
    UC ->> S: Redirected to consent URL
    alt Swan sends text message
        rect rgb(255,246,212)
        S ->> UC: Displays consent page with Partner's branding and logo
        UC ->> S: Starts consent flow
        S ->> UM: Sends text message with consent link
        end
    else Partner sends notification
        rect rgb(253,235,219)
        S ->> P: Sends webhook notification with consent link
        P ->> UM: Sends notification with consent link
        P ->> S: Confirms notification was sent
        S ->> UC: Displays consent page with Partner's branding and logo
        end
    end
    UM ->> S: Opens consent link
    S ->> UM: Displays consent page
    UM ->> S: Uses page to consent to the operation
    S ->> UM: Displays confirmation page
    S ->> UC: Redirects to Partner's redirect URL
    UC ->> P: Redirected to Partner's redirect URL
    P ->> S: Queries the consent
    S ->> P: Returns confirmed consent
    P ->> UC: Confirms sensitive operation
```

### Diagram: Mobile device {#consent-diagrams-mobile}

If the user is on their mobile device, they don't need a computer for the consent flow.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
autonumber
participant P as Partner (you)
participant S as Swan
participant UM as User's mobile device
    UM ->> P: Launches sensitive operation
    P ->> S: Calls sensitive mutation or query
    S ->> P: Returns consent
    P ->> UM: Redirects to consent URL
    UM ->> S: Redirected to consent URL
    S ->> UM: Displays consent page
    UM ->> S: Uses page to consent to the operation
    S ->> UM: Redirects to Partner's redirect URL
    UM ->> P: Redirected to Partner's redirect URL
    P ->> S: Queries the consent
    S ->> P: Returns confirmed consent
    P ->> UM: Confirms sensitive operation
```

### Diagram: Server-to-server {#consent-diagrams-s2s}

To trigger the S2S sequence, your user sends you a request.
This diagram completes the operation with server-to-server consent.

*Note that the diagram doesn't illustrate how you communicate with your user.*

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
participant PS as Partner server
participant P as Partner API
participant S as Swan API
    P ->> S: Calls sensitive mutation
    S ->> P: Returns consent info, including consent challenge
    P ->> PS: Signs consent challenge with private key
    PS ->> P: Returns signed consent challenge
    P ->> S: Calls mutation to grant consent with server signature
    S ->> S: Verifies signature with Partner public key
    S ->> S: Grants consent and executes callback
```

### Diagram: End-user perspective {#consent-diagrams-end-user}

<details>
  <summary>End-user perspective of consenting to add an account membership</summary>
  <div>
    <iframe src="https://www.figma.com/embed?embed_host=share&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.figma.com%2Ffile%2F7K15ufXZK7Zgan770kkTmq%2FUser-flow-diagrams%3Ftype%3Ddesign%26node-id%3D1%253A563%26mode%3Ddesign%26t%3DoGQbGo0SuPiYeJMG-1" allowFullScreen style={{width: "100%", height: 400}}></iframe>
  </div>
</details>

## Guides {#guides}
- [Configure notifications and specify preferences](./guide-configure-notifications.mdx)
- [Create a multi-consent](./guide-create-multiconsent.mdx)
- [Implement server-to-server consent](./guide-implement-s2s.mdx)
- [Integrate Strong Customer Authentication](./guide-integrate-sca.mdx)

Commit message:

DOC-422 update list of s2s operations

docs/topics/users/consent/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Consent
---

# Consent

## Overview {#overview}

Consent is built-in to Swan's offer, meaning you don't handle it yourself.
In fact, you can't—it's part of Swan's [regulatory responsibility](../../../partnership/index.mdx#license) to manage consent.
Additionally, **consent can't be deactivated**.

Some operations at Swan are considered sensitive, and **sensitive operations always require user consent**.
To initiate sensitive operations **using the API**, you need authenticate with an access token.
You can either use a [user access token](../../../developers/using-api/authentication/index.mdx#tokens-user) in the name of the user wanting to make the payment, or with a [project access token](../../../developers/using-api/authentication/index.mdx#tokens-project) impersonating that user.
Users must consent to granting a user access token.

## Strong Customer Authentication (SCA) {#sca}

To protect the user and comply with legal requirements, users can only provide consent through Strong Customer Authentication (SCA).

SCA is a requirement of the EU Revised Directive on Payment Services (PSD2) to payment service providers within the European Economic Area.
The requirement mandates **multi-factor authentication** to increase the security of electronic payments.
All Swan consent processes use SCA.

### SCA user experience {#sca-user}

Though there's much more happening technically, the user experience to consent to sensitive operations is straightforward and typically quick. 

1. The user **opens the consent URL**.
    1. **Computer**: they receive the consent link in a text message from Swan or a notification from you. The user opens the link and follows the instructions.
    1. **Mobile device**: they're redirected to the correct page.
1. If the user **doesn't receive a text message**, they can either request the text message be sent again or consent by scanning a QR code.
1. The user **verifies their identity** by entering their 6-digit passcode or using biometrics.
1. The user is then redirected to your predefined `redirectUrl`.

<details>
  <summary>Video completing Strong Customer Authentication on mobile</summary>
    <div>
        <img src={require("../../../images/topics/users/consent/sca-flow.gif").default} alt="Map of Swan coverage for individual and company accounts" />
    </div>
</details>

:::caution Text message and link validity
**Text messages are valid for 15 minutes**, and consent links **time out 20 minutes after** being opened.
:::

If you refer to the [consent sequence diagrams](#consent-diagrams), this user experience occurs when the user opens the consent link and completes the consent request.
Look for the arrow description `Uses page to consent to the operation`.

## List of sensitive operations {#sensitive}

The following mutations concern sensitive operations and require consent.
All links lead to the mutation's API Reference page.

<h3 id="sensitive-accounts">Accounts & onboarding</h3>

- [`closeAccount`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/close-account/)
- [`finalizeOnboarding`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/finalize-onboarding/) ⮂

<h3 id="sensitive-account-memberships">Account memberships</h3>

- [`addAccountMembership`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-account-membership/)
- [`addAccountMemberships`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-account-memberships/)
- [`suspendAccountMembership`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/suspend-account-membership/) ⮂
- [`resumeAccountMembership`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/resume-account-membership/)
- [`updateAccountMembership`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/update-account-membership/)

<h3 id="sensitive-cards">Cards</h3>

- **Adding cards**:
    - [`addCard`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-card/) ⮂
    - [`addCards`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-cards/) ⮂
    - [`addCardsWithGroupDelivery`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-cards-with-group-delivery/) ⮂
    - [`addDigitalCard`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-digital-card/)
    - [`addSingleUseVirtualCard`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-single-use-virtual-card/) ⮂
    - [`addSingleUseVirtualCards`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-single-use-virtual-cards/) ⮂
- **Virtual cards**:
    - [`updateCard`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/update-card/) ⮂
    - [`viewCardNumbers`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/view-card-numbers/)
- **Physical cards**:
    - [`printPhysicalCard`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/print-physical-card/) ⮂
    - [`activatePhysicalCard`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/activate-physical-card/) ⮂
    - [`resumePhysicalCard`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/resume-physical-card/) ⮂
    - [`viewPhysicalCardNumbers`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/view-physical-card-numbers/)
    - [`viewPhysicalCardPin`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/view-physical-card-pin/)

<h3 id="sensitive-funding">Funding</h3>

- [`addDirectDebitFundingSource`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-direct-debit-funding-source/) ⮂
- [`initiateFundingRequest`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/initiate-funding-request/) ⮂

<h3 id="sensitive-payments-transactions">Payments and transactions</h3>

- **Credit transfers**:
    - [`initiateCreditTransfers`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/initiate-credit-transfers/) ⮂
    - [`initiateInternationalCreditTransfer`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/initiate-international-credit-transfer/) ⮂
    - [`scheduleStandingOrder`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/schedule-standing-order/) ⮂
- **Direct debit payment mandates**:
    - [`addReceivedSepaDirectDebitB2bMandate`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-received-sepa-direct-debit-b2-b-mandate/) ⮂
    - [`enableReceivedDirectDebitMandate`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/enable-received-direct-debit-mandate/) ⮂
    - [`updateReceivedSepaDirectDebitB2bMandate`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/update-received-sepa-direct-debit-b2-b-mandate/) ⮂
- **Other**:
    - [`refund`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/refund/) ⮂

## Multi-consents {#multi-consent}

Multi-consent allows you to group multiple consents for sensitive operations into a single consent, so your user can **consent to multiple operations at the same time**.
For example, your user could consent to adding a card, adding an account membership, and initiating a credit transfer, all at once.
Creating a multi-consent is an asynchronous operation, and you can group up to **100 child consents** into one multi-consent.

When the user consents to the multi-consent, the status changes to `OperationComitting` and the user is informed their multi-consent is complete.
Note that child consents aren't processed immediately.

As the multi-consent executes, if any child consent fails, the status of the whole multi-consent changes to `Failed`.
Any child consents that were `Accepted` before the failed child consent remain valid.
Any child consents that were still waiting to be executed are canceled.

Since execution is asynchronous, consider subscribing to [consent webhooks](../../../developers/using-api/webhooks.mdx#events-consent) to stay updated on the progress of each child consent.

Learn how to **create a multi-consent** in the [dedicated guide](./guide-create-multiconsent.mdx).

## Notification preferences {#notifications}

You can specify how your user would like to receive consent notifications, referred to as their preferred channel.
Swan offers two possibilities:

1. Swan sends a text message to the user, which includes the SCA link the user needs to open on their mobile device.
1. You receive a notification, then you send the SCA link to your user. This is only possible if you have your own mobile app.

If you choose to receive the notification and send it to your user, you'll need to configure your notifications.
Learn how to **specify notification preferences** and **configure your own notifications** in the [dedicated guide](./guide-configure-notifications.mdx).

:::info Web Banking interface
If you're using Swan's Web Banking interface, Swan sends a text message to your users for one-time passwords, logins, and consents, regardless of preferred channel and notification configuration.
:::

## Server-to-server consent {#s2s}

If you have thousands of operations waiting for consent, requiring consent directly from the user could become a blocker.
**Server-to-server (S2S) consent bypasses direct user intervention**, making bulk actions that your integrations might require easier to execute.

For example, you might consider using server-to-server consent to generate single-use virtual cards to pay merchants, perform batch payments, and refund transfers.

Human interaction for SCA is always required, but Swan makes an exception for your own accounts.
If you want to implement it, you can use S2S consent to approve sensitive operations.
Note that your implementation requires approval from Swan.

Many [sensitive operations](#sensitive) are eligible for server-to-server consent.
There are some operations that allow you to view highly sensitive information and therefore aren't eligible for server-to-server consent.
Review the list of [sensitive operations](#sensitive) to know which operations are eligible for server-to-server consent, marked with the icon ⮂.

Learn how to **implement server-to-server consent** in the [dedicated guide](./guide-implement-s2s.mdx).

### Key cryptography {#s2s-cryptography}

Server-to-server consent relies on key cryptography respecting a specific algorithm.
Swan won't accept keys that don't respect this algorithm.
The model involves a pair of keys, public and private.

Keys must respect the following algorithm:

- ECDSA with reputed strong curve (such as p-256)
- Key type must be exported in **JWK**

You'll [install the public key](./guide-implement-s2s.mdx#install-public) on your Dashboard, and it will be used to verify the server signature for all S2S operations.
You're required to keep the corresponding private key secure on your side.

import ReplacePublicKey from './_s2s-replace-key.mdx';

<ReplacePublicKey />

### Role of projects and legal reps {#s2s-project-legal-rep}

For security and regulatory purposes, server-to-server consent is **bound to a project**, more specifically to the **project's [legal representative](../../../glossary.mdx#legal-representative)**.
You can't apply S2S consent configured in one project to operations in another project.
Instead, implement S2S consent in both projects independently.

The keys, both public and private, are attributed to the project's legal representative.
Only the legal rep can perform operations with server-to-server consent.
With consent, you can also [impersonate the legal rep](../../../developers/using-api/authentication/index.mdx#tokens-project-impersonate) with a project access token.

Any operation required to [set up or modify S2S consent](./guide-implement-s2s.mdx) (such as installing the public key or adding IP addresses) must be consented to by the legal rep using [Strong Customer Authentication](./index.mdx#sca).

## Consent statuses {#statuses}

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'linear' } } }%%
flowchart LR
    SOI((Sensitive<br/>operation initiated)) -.-> C[Created]
    C -.-> S[Started]
    C -.-> CD[Canceled]
    S -.-> CD
    S -.-> OC[OperationCommitting]
    OC --> A[Accepted]
    S --> A
    S -.-> CR[CustomerRefused]
    S -.-> E[Expired]
    OC -.-> FA[Failed]
    subgraph V[Valid consent]
        A
    end
    subgraph F[Final status]
        CD
        CR
        E
        FA
        V
    end
    style SOI fill:#D4D3D5,stroke:#514F59
    style F fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
    style V fill:#dfedf2,stroke:#4d8296,stroke-width:3px
```

| Consent status | Explanation |
|---|---|
| `Created` | A sensitive operation was initiated, triggering the creation of a consent request automatically. The user who needs to consent hasn't opened the consent URL yet.  |
| `Started` | The user opened the consent URL but hasn't consented yet. |
| `Accepted` | The user consented successfully. |
| `Canceled` | Consent requests can be `Canceled` by you or your user as long as the consent has a non-final status. `Canceled` also applies to child consents when a preceding child consent `Failed`. |
| `CustomerRefused` | The user refused to consent to the sensitive operation. |
| `Expired` | The user opened the consent URL, but didn't consent within the 20-minute validity window. This also applies if the user tries to consent but can't manage to complete a valid consent within the 20 minutes. |
| `OperationCommitting`<br />*(multi-consent only)* | A multi-consent was executed, and one or more child consents are still in progress.<br /><br />**Next steps:**<ul><li>If consent is provided for all child consents, meaning all child consents have the status `Accepted`, the status of the multi-consent changes to `Accepted`.</li><li>If a single child consent has the status `Failed`, the multi-consent is also assigned the status `Failed`. </li></ul> |
| `Failed`<br />*(multi-consent only)* | A child consent `Failed`, meaning the multi-consent also `Failed`. All child consents that are already `Accepted` remain valid, but all child consents that haven't been executed yet are `Canceled`. |

## Consent sequence diagrams {#consent-diagrams}

### Diagram: Computer {#consent-diagrams-computer}

If your user is on a computer, their consent flow depends on your [notification settings](#notifications).
They'll either receive a **text message from Swan** (arrows 6-8) or a **notification from you** (arrows 9-12).

Users are guided through a  similar but slightly different flow for online payments that require [3-D Secure consent](../../payments/cards/index.mdx#3ds).

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
autonumber
participant UC as User's computer
participant P as Partner (you)
participant S as Swan
participant UM as User's mobile device
    UC ->> P: Launches sensitive operation
    P ->> S: Calls sensitive mutation or query
    S ->> P: Returns consent
    P ->> UC: Redirects to consent URL
    UC ->> S: Redirected to consent URL
    alt Swan sends text message
        rect rgb(255,246,212)
        S ->> UC: Displays consent page with Partner's branding and logo
        UC ->> S: Starts consent flow
        S ->> UM: Sends text message with consent link
        end
    else Partner sends notification
        rect rgb(253,235,219)
        S ->> P: Sends webhook notification with consent link
        P ->> UM: Sends notification with consent link
        P ->> S: Confirms notification was sent
        S ->> UC: Displays consent page with Partner's branding and logo
        end
    end
    UM ->> S: Opens consent link
    S ->> UM: Displays consent page
    UM ->> S: Uses page to consent to the operation
    S ->> UM: Displays confirmation page
    S ->> UC: Redirects to Partner's redirect URL
    UC ->> P: Redirected to Partner's redirect URL
    P ->> S: Queries the consent
    S ->> P: Returns confirmed consent
    P ->> UC: Confirms sensitive operation
```

### Diagram: Mobile device {#consent-diagrams-mobile}

If the user is on their mobile device, they don't need a computer for the consent flow.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
autonumber
participant P as Partner (you)
participant S as Swan
participant UM as User's mobile device
    UM ->> P: Launches sensitive operation
    P ->> S: Calls sensitive mutation or query
    S ->> P: Returns consent
    P ->> UM: Redirects to consent URL
    UM ->> S: Redirected to consent URL
    S ->> UM: Displays consent page
    UM ->> S: Uses page to consent to the operation
    S ->> UM: Redirects to Partner's redirect URL
    UM ->> P: Redirected to Partner's redirect URL
    P ->> S: Queries the consent
    S ->> P: Returns confirmed consent
    P ->> UM: Confirms sensitive operation
```

### Diagram: Server-to-server {#consent-diagrams-s2s}

To trigger the S2S sequence, your user sends you a request.
This diagram completes the operation with server-to-server consent.

*Note that the diagram doesn't illustrate how you communicate with your user.*

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
participant PS as Partner server
participant P as Partner API
participant S as Swan API
    P ->> S: Calls sensitive mutation
    S ->> P: Returns consent info, including consent challenge
    P ->> PS: Signs consent challenge with private key
    PS ->> P: Returns signed consent challenge
    P ->> S: Calls mutation to grant consent with server signature
    S ->> S: Verifies signature with Partner public key
    S ->> S: Grants consent and executes callback
```

### Diagram: End-user perspective {#consent-diagrams-end-user}

<details>
  <summary>End-user perspective of consenting to add an account membership</summary>
  <div>
    <iframe src="https://www.figma.com/embed?embed_host=share&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.figma.com%2Ffile%2F7K15ufXZK7Zgan770kkTmq%2FUser-flow-diagrams%3Ftype%3Ddesign%26node-id%3D1%253A563%26mode%3Ddesign%26t%3DoGQbGo0SuPiYeJMG-1" allowFullScreen style={{width: "100%", height: 400}}></iframe>
  </div>
</details>

## Guides {#guides}
- [Configure notifications and specify preferences](./guide-configure-notifications.mdx)
- [Create a multi-consent](./guide-create-multiconsent.mdx)
- [Implement server-to-server consent](./guide-implement-s2s.mdx)
- [Integrate Strong Customer Authentication](./guide-integrate-sca.mdx)
