docs/topics/onboarding/company/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Company account onboarding
---

# Company account onboarding

import CompanyOnboardingDefinition from '../../definitions/_onboarding-company.mdx';

> <CompanyOnboardingDefinition />
> **Self-employed** users hold company accounts.
Refer to the country requirements section for more information about identification for self-employed users.

## Process overview {#overview}

Company onboarding supports different types of organizations, including:

- Several types of companies
- Self-employed workers
- Associations or not-for-profit organizations

import OnboardingOverview from '../partials/_overview.mdx';

<OnboardingOverview accountType="a company" />

## Collecting onboarding information {#collect-info}

Company onboarding information can be sumbitted **with the API** or through **Swan's onboarding form**.

| Method | Details |
| --- | --- |
| Onboarding form | The onboarding form collects:<br /><br /><ol><li>User's **email address**.</li><li>Legal information about the organization, including the **company name**, **registration number** (optional), **VAT number** (optional), and **address**, as well as details about the organization's **activity** and **expected monthly volume**.</li><li>Information about the company's **ultimate beneficial owners** (UBO). This step only applies if the user selected **company**, **home owner association**, or **other** when submitting their preliminary details.</li><li>**Required documents** to verify your organization. You might not see this step in your onboarding process.</li><li>User [**signs up**](../../users/index.mdx#signup) for Swan.</li></ol>You can also customize this form to better meet your needs. Review to Swan's [open source documentation](https://swan-io.github.io/swan-partner-frontend/specs/onboarding/company/), then ask your Technical Account Manager for more information. |
| API | The API collects the same information as the onboarding form. Please review the requirements explained on this page throughly, then follow the guide to [create a company onboarding link](./guide-create.mdx). |

### Expected monthly volume {#monthly-volume}

Swan uses the expected monthly volume provided during onboarding to monitor the account.
It's essential to select the range that corresponds to the company's actual volume, and to notify Swan if that expected monthly volume changes during the account's lifecycle.

If you use Swan's onboarding form, this information is collected by default.
If you design your own form, please offer the following ranges:

- Less than 10 000€ (`LessThan10000`)
- Between 10 000€ and 50 000€ (`Between10000And50000`)
- Between 50 000€ and 100 000€ (`Between50000And100000`)
- More than 100 000€ (`MoreThan100000`)

### Ultimate beneficial owners (UBOs) {#ubo}

Providing information for at least one UBO is **mandatory for all companies**.
Swan allows two types of UBOs:

- Ownership of capital UBO
- Legal representative UBO

#### Ownership of capital UBO {#ubo-owner}

An **ownership of capital UBO** is anyone holding more than 25% of that company's value, whether directly or indirectly.
Providing information for **all** UBOs owning 25% or more of a company is a **legal requirement**.

**Direct ownership** is the most straightforward form of ownership and means the UBO owns shares or stakes directly in the company.
They are listed as a shareholder on company records.
**Indirect ownership** means the UBO owns shares or stakes through other entities, such as trusts or parent companies.
They may control or have rights to the company without their names being listed directly on company records.

:::tip 
With the API, set `type` to `HasCapital`.
On the onboarding form, choose `Ownership of capital` for type of control exercised.
Always include how much capital they own and whether they own it directly or indirectly.
:::

#### Legal representative UBO {#ubo-legal-representative}

A **legal representative UBO** serves as the company's default UBO if a company doesn't have any UBOs who hold more than 25% of the company.
Providing information for one legal representative UBO is required if the company has zero ownership of capital UBOs.

:::tip 
With the API, set `type` to `LegalRepresentative`.
On the onboarding form, choose `Legal representative` for type of control exercised.
No other additional information is required in the UBO section for legal representative UBOs.
:::

### Country-specific information {#country-info}

Requested information can change based on your account country.
Refer to the [tables later on this page](#country-reqs) for country-specific requirements.

## Identification recommendations {#identification-recommendations}

Swan must verify the identity of the [legal representative](../../../glossary.mdx#legal-representative) for each company.
Swan supports multiple [**identification processes**](../../users/identifications/index.mdx#levels-processes), and some require a [**first transfer**](../account-holders/index.mdx#first-transfer).
For company onboarding, the following levels are recommended based on the account country.

| Account country | Recommended level for legal representative | Other supported levels |
|---|---|---|
| 🇫🇷 France | **✓ Expert** | QES<br/>PVID |
| 🇩🇪 Germany | **✓ Expert** | QES |
| 🇮🇹 Italy | **✓ QES** | Expert + first transfer |
| 🇳🇱 Netherlands | **✓ Expert** | QES<br/>PVID |
| 🇪🇸 Spain | **✓ Expert** | QES<br/>PVID |

import SelfEmployedRecommendations from '../../partials/_self-employed-id-recs.mdx';

:::info Self-employed account holders
<SelfEmployedRecommendations />
:::

## Country requirements for company accounts {#country-reqs}

import CountryReqs from '../partials/_country-reqs.mdx';

<CountryReqs thisAccountType="company" thatAccountType="individual" />

For company accounts, use the `onboardCompanyAccountHolder` mutation to collect the following information according to your desired account country.

Note that this section is broken up into company and account holder information, information about the UBO, and information about the legal representative.

All have required fields.
If the cell is empty, the field is optional.

### Company and account holder information {#country-reqs-company-account-holder}

| API field | 🇫🇷<br/>France | 🇩🇪<br/>Germany | 🇮🇹<br/>Italy | 🇳🇱<br/>Netherlands | 🇪🇸<br/>Spain |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|`accountCountry`| ✓ Required (**FRA**) | ✓ Required (**DEU**) | ✓ Required (**ITA**) | ✓ Required (**NLD**) | ✓ Required (**ESP**) |
|`accountName`|  |  |  |  |  |
|`businessActivity`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`businessActivityDescription`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`companyType`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`email`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`isRegistered` ^| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`language`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`monthlyPaymentVolume`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`name` *(company name)* | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`redirectUrl`|  |  |  |  |  |
|`registrationNumber` ^ | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`residencyAddress.addressLine1`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`residencyAddress.addressLine2`|  |  |  |  |  |
|`residencyAddress.city`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`residencyAddress.country`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`residencyAddress.postalCode`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`residencyAddress.state`|  |  |  |  |  |
|`taxIdentificationNumber`|  | ✓ Required (∗ 90 days) | |  | ﹖ Conditional |
|`typeOfRepresentation`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`vatNumber`|  |  |  |  |  |

> ^ *`isRegistered` must be `true` and the `registrationNumber` provided for **all onboardings** where `companyType` is `Company`.
This also applies when `companyType` is `SelfEmployed` **and** the account country is `France`.
Swan overrides `isRegistered` if the provided value is `false` but it should be `true`.*
>
> ∗ *If the `accountCountry` is Germany, the account holder has 90 days to provide their Tax ID Number when opening an account.
Otherwise, the account is `Suspended`.
Share [Swan's Support Center article](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/21876111550621-German-Tax-identification-number-Tax-ID) if your account holders have concerns.*
>
> ﹖ *Required if **both** the `accountCountry` and `residencyAddress.country` are Spain.*

### UBO information {#country-reqs-ubo}

If your company has a [**legal representative UBO**](#ubo-legal-representative), most of these fields can be left empty.
However, for `individualUltimateBeneficialOwners.type`, please indicate `LegalRepresentative`.

:::note Abbreviation
**UBO** stands for a portion of the API field: `individualUltimateBeneficialOwners`.
:::

| API field | 🇫🇷<br/>France | 🇩🇪<br/>Germany | 🇮🇹<br/>Italy | 🇳🇱<br/>Netherlands | 🇪🇸<br/>Spain |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|`UBO.birthCity`| ✓ Required | | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.birthCityPostalCode`| ✓ Required | | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | |
|`UBO.birthCountryCode`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.birthDate`| ✓ Required |  | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.direct`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.indirect`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.firstName`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.lastName`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.gender`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.residencyAddress.addressLine1`|  | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |  | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.residencyAddress.addressLine2`| | | | | |
|`UBO.residencyAddress.city`|  | ✓ Required |  ✓ Required | | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.residencyAddress.country`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.residencyAddress.postalCode`| | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |  | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.residencyAddress.state`| | | | | |
|`UBO.taxIdentificationNumber`| | ﹖ Conditional | ✓ Required | | |
|`UBO.totalCapitalPercentage`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.type`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |

﹖ *Required if both the `accountCountry` and the UBO's `residencyAddress.country` are Germany.*

### Legal representative information {#country-reqs-legal-rep}

:::note Abbreviation
**lr** stands for a portion of the API field: `legalRepresentative`.
:::

| API field | 🇫🇷<br/>France | 🇩🇪<br/>Germany | 🇮🇹<br/>Italy | 🇳🇱<br/>Netherlands | 🇪🇸<br/>Spain |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|`lrPersonalAddress.addressLine1`| | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | |
|`lrPersonalAddress.addressLine2`| | | | | |
|`lrPersonalAddress.city`| | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | |
|`lrPersonalAddress.country`| | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | |
|`lrPersonalAddress.postalCode`| | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | |
|`lrPersonalAddress.state`| | | | | |

## User flow diagrams {#diagrams}

<details>
  <summary>End-user perspective of a company account onboarding</summary>
  <div>
    <iframe
      src="https://www.figma.com/embed?embed_host=share&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.figma.com%2Ffile%2F7K15ufXZK7Zgan770kkTmq%2FUser-flow-diagrams%3Ftype%3Ddesign%26node-id%3D1%253A1485%26mode%3Ddesign%26t%3DVw8fufZTNCMDmRR5-1"
      allowFullScreen
      style={{ width: "100%", height: 400 }}
    ></iframe>
  </div>
</details>

## Guides  {#guides}

Use the following guides to start and complete the company onboarding process.

* [Create a company onboarding link](./guide-create.mdx)
* [Update a company onboarding](./guide-update.mdx)

Commit message:

DOC-915 retrieve french business registry info (#251)

docs/topics/onboarding/company/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Company account onboarding
---

# Company account onboarding

import CompanyOnboardingDefinition from '../../definitions/_onboarding-company.mdx';

> <CompanyOnboardingDefinition />
> **Self-employed** users hold company accounts.
Refer to the country requirements section for more information about identification for self-employed users.

## Process overview {#overview}

Company onboarding supports different types of organizations, including:

- Several types of companies
- Self-employed workers
- Associations or not-for-profit organizations

import OnboardingOverview from '../partials/_overview.mdx';

<OnboardingOverview accountType="a company" />

## Collecting onboarding information {#collect-info}

Company onboarding information can be sumbitted **with the API** or through **Swan's onboarding form**.

| Method | Details |
| --- | --- |
| Onboarding form | The onboarding form collects:<br /><br /><ol><li>User's **email address**.</li><li>Legal information about the organization, including the **company name**, **registration number** (optional), **VAT number** (optional), and **address**, as well as details about the organization's **activity** and **expected monthly volume**.</li><li>Information about the company's **ultimate beneficial owners** (UBO). This step only applies if the user selected **company**, **home owner association**, or **other** when submitting their preliminary details.</li><li>**Required documents** to verify your organization. You might not see this step in your onboarding process.</li><li>User [**signs up**](../../users/index.mdx#signup) for Swan.</li></ol>You can also customize this form to better meet your needs. Review to Swan's [open source documentation](https://swan-io.github.io/swan-partner-frontend/specs/onboarding/company/), then ask your Technical Account Manager for more information. |
| API | The API collects the same information as the onboarding form. Please review the requirements explained on this page throughly, then follow the guide to [create a company onboarding link](./guide-create.mdx). |

### Expected monthly volume {#monthly-volume}

Swan uses the expected monthly volume provided during onboarding to monitor the account.
It's essential to select the range that corresponds to the company's actual volume, and to notify Swan if that expected monthly volume changes during the account's lifecycle.

If you use Swan's onboarding form, this information is collected by default.
If you design your own form, please offer the following ranges:

- Less than 10 000€ (`LessThan10000`)
- Between 10 000€ and 50 000€ (`Between10000And50000`)
- Between 50 000€ and 100 000€ (`Between50000And100000`)
- More than 100 000€ (`MoreThan100000`)

### Ultimate beneficial owners (UBOs) {#ubo}

Providing information for at least one UBO is **mandatory for all companies**.
Swan allows two types of UBOs:

- Ownership of capital UBO
- Legal representative UBO

#### Ownership of capital UBO {#ubo-owner}

An **ownership of capital UBO** is anyone holding more than 25% of that company's value, whether directly or indirectly.
Providing information for **all** UBOs owning 25% or more of a company is a **legal requirement**.

**Direct ownership** is the most straightforward form of ownership and means the UBO owns shares or stakes directly in the company.
They are listed as a shareholder on company records.
**Indirect ownership** means the UBO owns shares or stakes through other entities, such as trusts or parent companies.
They may control or have rights to the company without their names being listed directly on company records.

:::tip 
With the API, set `type` to `HasCapital`.
On the onboarding form, choose `Ownership of capital` for type of control exercised.
Always include how much capital they own and whether they own it directly or indirectly.
:::

#### Legal representative UBO {#ubo-legal-representative}

A **legal representative UBO** serves as the company's default UBO if a company doesn't have any UBOs who hold more than 25% of the company.
Providing information for one legal representative UBO is required if the company has zero ownership of capital UBOs.

:::tip 
With the API, set `type` to `LegalRepresentative`.
On the onboarding form, choose `Legal representative` for type of control exercised.
No other additional information is required in the UBO section for legal representative UBOs.
:::

### Retrieving data automatically {#retrieve-data}

For companies located in 🇫🇷 France, Swan retrieves available data automatically from the national business registry after you provide the company's registration number.
By allowing Swan to retrieve the data, you don't need to ask your users for certain information.

To trigger automatic retrieval, `residencyAddress.country` must be `FRA` and you must provide the `registrationNumber`.
These fields are the only mandatory data you need to include when creating French company onboardings.

#### Representative data {#retrieve-data-rep}

For data about representatives (UBOs and legal representatives), how Swan applies registry data depends on what you provide:

- If you **provide** data, Swan doesn't override your values with data from the registry.
- If you **don't provide** data, Swan creates the API objects and fills in the available data from the registry. Note that the registry information isn't always complete.

#### Other data {#retrieve-data-other}

For all other data, review the following table to understand how Swan applies retrieved data.

| Event | Providing data | Example |
|---|---|---|
| **Create** an onboarding | Swan fills in as many onboarding fields as possible with data from the registry. Note that the registry information isn't always complete.<br /><br />If you provide data manually when creating the onboarding, Swan doesn't override those values, only filling in the other data. | You: <ul><li>Provide the mandatory `residencyAddress.country` and `registrationNumber`.</li><li>Provide the `vatNumber`, which could be retrieved from the registry.</li></ul>Swan: <ul><li>Keeps the `vatNumber` you provided.</li><li>Fills in all other fields with the retrieved data.</li></ul> |
| **Update** an onboarding | Swan overrides any data you provided manually when creating the onboarding with data from the registry, unless you provide it again. | You: <ul><li>Specify the `language`.</li><li>Don't provide the `vatNumber` again.</li></ul>Swan: <ul><li>Replaces the `vatNumber` you provided when creating the onboarding with the `vatNumber` retrieved from the registry.</li><li>Saves the `language` data.</li></ul> |

:::caution Overriding data
When you create and update onboardings, Swan automatically fills in available data from the registry.
If you need to update an onboarding, and you provided data manually when creating that onboarding, provide the data again if you don't want Swan to override it.
:::

## Identification recommendations {#identification-recommendations}

Swan must verify the identity of the [legal representative](../../../glossary.mdx#legal-representative) for each company.
Swan supports multiple [identification processes](../../users/identifications/index.mdx#levels-processes), and some require a [first transfer](../account-holders/index.mdx#first-transfer).
For company onboarding, the following levels are recommended based on the account country.

| Account country | Recommended level for legal representative | Other supported levels |
|---|---|---|
| 🇫🇷 France | **✓ Expert** | QES<br/>PVID |
| 🇩🇪 Germany | **✓ Expert** | QES |
| 🇮🇹 Italy | **✓ QES** | Expert + first transfer |
| 🇳🇱 Netherlands | **✓ Expert** | QES<br/>PVID |
| 🇪🇸 Spain | **✓ Expert** | QES<br/>PVID |

import SelfEmployedRecommendations from '../../partials/_self-employed-id-recs.mdx';

:::info Self-employed account holders
<SelfEmployedRecommendations />
:::

## Country requirements for company accounts {#country-reqs}

import CountryReqs from '../partials/_country-reqs.mdx';

<CountryReqs thisAccountType="company" thatAccountType="individual" />

For company accounts, use the `onboardCompanyAccountHolder` mutation to collect the following information according to your desired account country.

Note that this section is broken up into company and account holder information, information about the UBO, and information about the legal representative.

All have required fields.
If the cell is empty, the field is optional.

### Company and account holder information {#country-reqs-company-account-holder}

| API field | 🇫🇷<br/>France | 🇩🇪<br/>Germany | 🇮🇹<br/>Italy | 🇳🇱<br/>Netherlands | 🇪🇸<br/>Spain |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|`accountCountry`| ✓ Required (**FRA**) | ✓ Required (**DEU**) | ✓ Required (**ITA**) | ✓ Required (**NLD**) | ✓ Required (**ESP**) |
|`accountName`|  |  |  |  |  |
|`businessActivity`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`businessActivityDescription`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`companyType`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`email`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`isRegistered` ^| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`language`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`monthlyPaymentVolume`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`name` *(company name)* | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`redirectUrl`|  |  |  |  |  |
|`registrationNumber` ^ | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`residencyAddress.addressLine1`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`residencyAddress.addressLine2`|  |  |  |  |  |
|`residencyAddress.city`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`residencyAddress.country`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`residencyAddress.postalCode`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`residencyAddress.state`|  |  |  |  |  |
|`taxIdentificationNumber`|  | ✓ Required (∗ 90 days) | |  | ﹖ Conditional |
|`typeOfRepresentation`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`vatNumber`|  |  |  |  |  |

> ^ *`isRegistered` must be `true` and the `registrationNumber` provided for **all onboardings** where `companyType` is `Company`.
This also applies when `companyType` is `SelfEmployed` **and** the account country is `France`.
Swan overrides `isRegistered` if the provided value is `false` but it should be `true`.
Learn more about how [Swan retrieves data](#retrieve-data) for certain company accounts.*
>
> ∗ *If the `accountCountry` is Germany, the account holder has 90 days to provide their Tax ID Number when opening an account.
Otherwise, the account is `Suspended`.
Share [Swan's Support Center article](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/21876111550621-German-Tax-identification-number-Tax-ID) if your account holders have concerns.*
>
> ﹖ *Required if **both** the `accountCountry` and `residencyAddress.country` are Spain.*

### UBO information {#country-reqs-ubo}

If your company has a [**legal representative UBO**](#ubo-legal-representative), most of these fields can be left empty.
However, for `individualUltimateBeneficialOwners.type`, please indicate `LegalRepresentative`.

:::note Abbreviation
**UBO** stands for a portion of the API field: `individualUltimateBeneficialOwners`.
:::

| API field | 🇫🇷<br/>France | 🇩🇪<br/>Germany | 🇮🇹<br/>Italy | 🇳🇱<br/>Netherlands | 🇪🇸<br/>Spain |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|`UBO.birthCity`| ✓ Required | | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.birthCityPostalCode`| ✓ Required | | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | |
|`UBO.birthCountryCode`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.birthDate`| ✓ Required |  | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.direct`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.indirect`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.firstName`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.lastName`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.gender`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.residencyAddress.addressLine1`|  | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |  | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.residencyAddress.addressLine2`| | | | | |
|`UBO.residencyAddress.city`|  | ✓ Required |  ✓ Required | | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.residencyAddress.country`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.residencyAddress.postalCode`| | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |  | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.residencyAddress.state`| | | | | |
|`UBO.taxIdentificationNumber`| | ﹖ Conditional | ✓ Required | | |
|`UBO.totalCapitalPercentage`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |
|`UBO.type`| ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required |

﹖ *Required if both the `accountCountry` and the UBO's `residencyAddress.country` are Germany.*

### Legal representative information {#country-reqs-legal-rep}

:::note Abbreviation
**lr** stands for a portion of the API field: `legalRepresentative`.
:::

| API field | 🇫🇷<br/>France | 🇩🇪<br/>Germany | 🇮🇹<br/>Italy | 🇳🇱<br/>Netherlands | 🇪🇸<br/>Spain |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|`lrPersonalAddress.addressLine1`| | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | |
|`lrPersonalAddress.addressLine2`| | | | | |
|`lrPersonalAddress.city`| | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | |
|`lrPersonalAddress.country`| | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | |
|`lrPersonalAddress.postalCode`| | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | ✓ Required | |
|`lrPersonalAddress.state`| | | | | |

## User flow diagrams {#diagrams}

<details>
  <summary>End-user perspective of a company account onboarding</summary>
  <div>
    <iframe
      src="https://www.figma.com/embed?embed_host=share&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.figma.com%2Ffile%2F7K15ufXZK7Zgan770kkTmq%2FUser-flow-diagrams%3Ftype%3Ddesign%26node-id%3D1%253A1485%26mode%3Ddesign%26t%3DVw8fufZTNCMDmRR5-1"
      allowFullScreen
      style={{ width: "100%", height: 400 }}
    ></iframe>
  </div>
</details>

## Guides  {#guides}

Use the following guides to start and complete the company onboarding process.

* [Create a company onboarding link](./guide-create.mdx)
* [Update a company onboarding](./guide-update.mdx)
