docs/preview/vop/incoming-vop-requests.mdx, before:

---
title: Incoming VoP requests
---

# Incoming Verification of Payee requests

Swan automatically responds to VoP requests from other Payment Service Providers (PSPs) when they verify details before sending transfers to Swan accounts.

:::info Regulatory requirement
Under the [European Instant Payments Regulation (IPR)](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=OJ:L_202400886), all PSPs in the SEPA zone must offer VoP services for incoming transfers starting October 5, 2025.
:::

## How incoming VoP works {#how-it-works}

When another PSP initiates a transfer to a Swan account, they first send a VoP request to verify the beneficiary details. Swan automatically processes these requests and returns a verification result.

### Process overview {#process-overview}

Swan operates as a responding PSP registered with the [EPC Directory Service (EDS)](https://www.europeanpaymentscouncil.eu/what-we-do/other-epc-activities/epc-directory-service). We partner with Mambu Payments to compute and provide VoP matching results.

Mambu Payments supports three integration modes (refer to [Mambu's VoP documentation](https://docs.numeral.io/docs/respond-to-vop-requests)):
- Synchronised accounts.
- Account holder information requests to your system.
- Pass-through integration with your system.

Swan uses the "Account holder information requests to your system" integration mode to protect end users' data.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant PSP as Other PSP
    participant S as Swan
    participant AH as Account Holder

    PSP->>S: VoP request with beneficiary details
    S->>S: Account lookup & matching
    S-->>PSP: Verification result
    
    Note over PSP: PSP shows result to their customer
    
    PSP->>S: Transfer funds (optional)
    S->>AH: Funds received

    %%{init: {
        'theme': 'base',
        'themeVariables': {
            'primaryColor': '#6240b5',
            'primaryTextColor': '#271a48',
            'primaryBorderColor': '#4e3391',
            'lineColor': '#a18cd3',
            'secondaryColor': '#f8f7fc',
            'tertiaryColor': '#ffffff',
            'background': '#ffffff',
            'mainBkg': '#ffffff',
            'secondBkg': '#f8f7fc',
            'tertiaryBkg': '#6240b5',
            'activationBorderColor': '#4e3391',
            'activationBkgColor': '#c0b3e1',
            'sequenceNumberColor': '#ffffff',
            'sectionBkgColor': '#f8f7fc',
            'altSectionBkgColor': '#ffffff',
            'gridColor': '#e5e7eb',
            'disabledBkgColor': '#f3f4f6',
            'disabledTextColor': '#9ca3af',
            'fontSize': '16px',
            'fontFamily': '"Inter", "Segoe UI", system-ui, sans-serif'
        }
    }}%%
```

:::note No action required
This process is automatic. Swan handles all incoming VoP requests; no implementation is required.
:::

## Supported identification types {#identification-types}

Swan supports the following payee identification types (refer to [Mambu's VoP identification types documentation](https://docs.numeral.io/docs/vop-identification-types#supported-identification-types-in-vop)) with Swan [Bank Identifier Code (BIC)](/topics/accounts/ibans/#local):

### Name {#name-type}
The name of the legal entity or of the individual:
- **Company IBAN**: `AccountHolder.companyName`.
- **Individual IBAN**: `AccountHolder.firstName` + `AccountHolder.lastName`.

### Tax number {#tax-number-type}
The number assigned by a tax authority to identify an organisation:
- **Company IBAN**: `AccountHolder.registration.taxIdentificationNumber`.
- **Individual IBAN**: Not applicable.

### Company identification {#company-identification-type}
The identification assigned to an organization by a national authority (e.g., corporate registration number):
- **Company IBAN**: `AccountHolder.registration`.
- **Individual IBAN**: Not applicable.

### SIREN {#siren-type}
The SIREN number is a 9-digit code assigned by INSEE, the French National Institute for Statistics and Economic Studies, to identify an organisation in France:
- **Company IBAN**: `AccountHolder.registration` (same as `company_identification`).
- **Individual IBAN**: Not applicable.

## VoP matching and results {#matching-and-results}

Swan returns verification results based on how closely the provided details match the account holder information. Understanding these results helps you anticipate what other PSPs experience when sending transfers to Swan accounts.

### Verification outcomes {#verification-outcomes}

Swan returns one of four possible results:

| Result type | When it occurs | Matching approach |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Match** | Exact or very close match (95%+ similarity for names) | <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>Name: Levenshtein distance</span><br/><span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>ID numbers: Exact match</span> |
| **Close match** | Similar but not identical (80-94% similarity for names) | <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>Name: Levenshtein distance</span> |
| **No match** | Significant differences (under 80% similarity for names) | <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>Name: Levenshtein distance</span><br/><span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>ID numbers: Exact match</span> |
| **Impossible to match** | Account not found, unsupported ID type, account closed or suspended | Not applicable |

### Examples {#examples}

**Name matching examples:**

- "Henri Dupont" vs "Henri Dupont" → Match (100% similarity)
- "Henri Dupont" vs "Henri Dupond" → Close match (92% similarity)
- "Henri Dupont" vs "Henry Dupond" → Close match (83% similarity)
- "Henri Dupont" vs "John Doe" → No match (25% similarity)

**ID number matching examples:**
- Stored: "DE136695976", Received: "136695976" → **No match**
- Stored: "9234.56.788", Received: "923456788" → **No match**

## What this means for transfers {#transfer-implications}

Since VoP verification happens before the actual transfer, Swan cannot link incoming transfers to previous VoP requests. The requesting PSP decides whether to proceed based on the verification result - transfers can still arrive even after a "No match" result.

## Monitoring and logging {#monitoring}

Starting Q4 2025, Swan will log VoP requests and results to compile statistics and improve the matching algorithm configuration if necessary.

## Next steps {#next-steps}

→ Learn how to [verify beneficiary details](/preview/vop/guide-verify-beneficiary) using the `verifyBeneficiary` mutation  
→ Configure [bulk credit transfers with VoP](/preview/vop/bulk-credit-transfers) for high-volume use cases  
→ Understand the complete VoP ecosystem with [Verification of Payee overview](/preview/vop/verification-of-payee)

Commit message:

DOC-1342/improvements-for-vop-incoming-requests

docs/preview/vop/incoming-vop-requests.mdx, after:

---
title: Incoming VoP requests
---

# Incoming Verification of Payee requests

Swan automatically responds to VoP requests from other Payment Service Providers (PSPs) when they verify details before sending transfers to Swan accounts.

:::info Regulatory requirement
Under the [European Instant Payments Regulation (IPR)](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=OJ:L_202400886), all PSPs in the SEPA zone must offer VoP services for incoming transfers starting October 5, 2025.
:::

## How incoming VoP works {#how-it-works}

When another PSP initiates a transfer to a Swan account, they first send a VoP request to verify the beneficiary details. Swan automatically processes these requests and returns a verification result.

### Process overview {#process-overview}

Swan operates as a responding PSP registered with the [EPC Directory Service (EDS)](https://www.europeanpaymentscouncil.eu/what-we-do/other-epc-activities/epc-directory-service). We partner with Mambu Payments to compute and provide VoP matching results.

Mambu Payments supports three integration modes (refer to [Mambu's VoP documentation](https://docs.numeral.io/docs/respond-to-vop-requests)):
- Synchronised accounts.
- Account holder information requests to your system.
- Pass-through integration with your system.

Swan uses the "Account holder information requests to your system" integration mode to protect end users' data.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant PSP as Other PSP
    participant S as Swan
    participant AH as Account Holder

    PSP->>S: VoP request with beneficiary details
    S->>S: Account lookup & matching
    S-->>PSP: Verification result
    
    Note over PSP: PSP shows result to their customer
    
    PSP->>S: Transfer funds (optional)
    S->>AH: Funds received

    %%{init: {
        'theme': 'base',
        'themeVariables': {
            'primaryColor': '#6240b5',
            'primaryTextColor': '#271a48',
            'primaryBorderColor': '#4e3391',
            'lineColor': '#a18cd3',
            'secondaryColor': '#f8f7fc',
            'tertiaryColor': '#ffffff',
            'background': '#ffffff',
            'mainBkg': '#ffffff',
            'secondBkg': '#f8f7fc',
            'tertiaryBkg': '#6240b5',
            'activationBorderColor': '#4e3391',
            'activationBkgColor': '#c0b3e1',
            'sequenceNumberColor': '#ffffff',
            'sectionBkgColor': '#f8f7fc',
            'altSectionBkgColor': '#ffffff',
            'gridColor': '#e5e7eb',
            'disabledBkgColor': '#f3f4f6',
            'disabledTextColor': '#9ca3af',
            'fontSize': '16px',
            'fontFamily': '"Inter", "Segoe UI", system-ui, sans-serif'
        }
    }}%%
```

:::note No action required
This process is automatic. Swan handles all incoming VoP requests; no implementation is required.
:::

## Supported identification types {#identification-types}

Swan supports the following payee identification types (refer to [Mambu's VoP identification types documentation](https://docs.numeral.io/docs/vop-identification-types#supported-identification-types-in-vop)) with Swan [Bank Identifier Code (BIC)](/topics/accounts/ibans/#local):

### Name {#name-type}
The name of the legal entity or of the individual:
- **Company IBAN**: `AccountHolder.companyName`.
- **Individual IBAN**: `AccountHolder.firstName` + `AccountHolder.lastName`.

### Tax number {#tax-number-type}
The number assigned by a tax authority to identify an organisation:
- **Company IBAN**: `AccountHolder.registration.taxIdentificationNumber`.
- **Individual IBAN**: Not applicable.

### Company identification {#company-identification-type}
The identification assigned to an organization by a national authority (e.g., corporate registration number):
- **Company IBAN**: `AccountHolder.registration`.
- **Individual IBAN**: Not applicable.

### SIREN {#siren-type}
The SIREN number is a 9-digit code assigned by INSEE, the French National Institute for Statistics and Economic Studies, to identify an organisation in France:
- **Company IBAN**: `AccountHolder.registration` (same as `company_identification`).
- **Individual IBAN**: Not applicable.

## Important matching considerations {#matching-considerations}

### Trade names and merchant names {#trade-merchant-names}

Swan does not verify against trade names or merchant names. VoP matching uses only the legal company name registered in Swan's system.

**For Swan's partners**: If your end users save beneficiaries using trade names or merchant names instead of legal names, VoP requests will return **No match** results. Communicate to your users that they should save beneficiaries using the legal company name that appears on official documents.

**Example**: If a company's legal name is "PIANA SAS" but they operate as "Happy Place," VoP requests using "Happy Place" will return **No match**.

### Middle names {#middle-names}

Swan verifies against the complete name stored in the system, including middle names.

**Example**: If an account holder's name is "Henri Charles Dupont" but the VoP request only includes "Henri Dupont," the result will be **No match**.

## VoP matching and results {#matching-and-results}

Swan returns verification results based on how closely the provided details match the account holder information. Understanding these results helps you anticipate what other PSPs experience when sending transfers to Swan accounts.

### Verification outcomes {#verification-outcomes}

Swan returns one of four possible results:

| Result type | When it occurs | Matching approach |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Match** | Exact or very close match (100% similarity for names) | <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>Name: Levenshtein distance</span><br/><span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>ID numbers: Exact match</span> |
| **Close match** | Similar but not identical (80-99% similarity for names) | <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>Name: Levenshtein distance</span> |
| **No match** | Significant differences (under 80% similarity for names) | <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>Name: Levenshtein distance</span><br/><span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>ID numbers: Exact match</span> |
| **Impossible to match** | Account not found, unsupported ID type, account closed or suspended | Not applicable |

### Examples {#examples}

**Name matching examples:**

- "Henri Dupont" vs "Henri Dupont" → Match (100% similarity)
- "Henri Dupont" vs "Henri Dupond" → Close match (92% similarity)
- "Henri Dupont" vs "Henry Dupond" → Close match (83% similarity)
- "Henri Dupont" vs "Malika Ngoma" → No match (8% similarity)

**ID number matching examples:**
- Stored: "DE136695976", Received: "136695976" → **No match**
- Stored: "9234.56.788", Received: "923456788" → **No match**

## What this means for transfers {#transfer-implications}

Since VoP verification happens before the actual transfer, Swan cannot link incoming transfers to previous VoP requests. The requesting PSP decides whether to proceed based on the verification result - transfers can still arrive even after a "No match" result.

## Monitoring and logging {#monitoring}

Starting Q4 2025, Swan will log VoP requests and results to compile statistics and improve the matching algorithm configuration if necessary.

## Next steps {#next-steps}

→ Learn how to [verify beneficiary details](/preview/vop/guide-verify-beneficiary) using the `verifyBeneficiary` mutation  
→ Configure [bulk credit transfers with VoP](/preview/vop/bulk-credit-transfers) for high-volume use cases  
→ Understand the complete VoP ecosystem with [Verification of Payee overview](/preview/vop/verification-of-payee)
