docs/topics/cards/physical/guide-block-unblock.mdx, before:

---
title: Block & unblock physical cards
---

# Block & unblock physical cards

:::caution Blocked for incorrect PIN attempts
If a card was blocked without request, it might be because the cardholder made too many [incorrect attempts to enter their PIN](./index.mdx#pin-incorrect-attempts).
:::

## Temporarily block a physical card {#block}

You can temporarily suspend a physical card with the [`suspendPhysicalCard` mutation](https://explorer.swan.io?query=bXV0YXRpb24gQmxvY2tQaHlzaWNhbENhcmQgewogIHN1c3BlbmRQaHlzaWNhbENhcmQoaW5wdXQ6IHsgY2FyZElkOiAiIiB9KSB7CiAgICAuLi4gb24gU3VzcGVuZFBoeXNpY2FsQ2FyZFN1Y2Nlc3NQYXlsb2FkIHsKICAgICAgX190eXBlbmFtZQogICAgfQogIH0KfQo%3D&tab=api).

## Unblock a physical card {#unblock}

To unblock a physical card with the [`resumePhysicalCard` mutation](https://explorer.swan.io?query=bXV0YXRpb24gVW5ibG9ja1BoeXNpY2FsQ2FyZCB7CiAgcmVzdW1lUGh5c2ljYWxDYXJkKGlucHV0OiB7IGNhcmRJZDogIiIsIGNvbnNlbnRSZWRpcmVjdFVybDogIiIgfSkgewogICAgLi4uIG9uIFJlc3VtZVBoeXNpY2FsQ2FyZFN1Y2Nlc3NQYXlsb2FkIHsKICAgICAgX190eXBlbmFtZQogICAgICBjb25zZW50IHsKICAgICAgICBjb25zZW50VXJsCiAgICAgIH0KICAgIH0KICB9Cn0K&tab=api), you must:

- Be signed in.
- Use a user access token in the name of the card's account member.

A `consentUrl` is returned inviting the user to start the Strong Customer Authentication with Swan.

If you **chose to block the card**, the card can be used immediately after you unblock it.

## Unblock after 3 incorrect PIN attempts {#unblock-pin}

If a card was blocked because the PIN was entered incorrectly 3 times, the **cardholder** must complete the process to resume the card, with one potential interaction from your side depending on your integration.

1. **Wait 24 hours** from the last incorrect PIN attempt.
1. You or the cardholder call the `resumePhysicalCard` mutation to start the unblocking process:
    1. **Cardholder**: In Swan's Web Banking interface, clicking **Unblock** calls this mutation. Refer to Swan's [Support Center](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/16351372133789-Unblocking-your-card-after-three-incorrect-PIN-attempts) for more information. If you don't use Swan's Web Banking, consider designing your integration with a similar action.
    1. **You**: If your integration doesn't allow the cardholder to do so, you need to [call the mutation](https://explorer.swan.io?query=bXV0YXRpb24gVW5ibG9ja1BoeXNpY2FsQ2FyZCB7CiAgcmVzdW1lUGh5c2ljYWxDYXJkKGlucHV0OiB7IGNhcmRJZDogIiIsIGNvbnNlbnRSZWRpcmVjdFVybDogIiIgfSkgewogICAgLi4uIG9uIFJlc3VtZVBoeXNpY2FsQ2FyZFN1Y2Nlc3NQYXlsb2FkIHsKICAgICAgX190eXBlbmFtZQogICAgICBjb25zZW50IHsKICAgICAgICBjb25zZW50VXJsCiAgICAgIH0KICAgIH0KICB9Cn0K&tab=api).
    :::caution Wait 24 hours
    If the `resumePhysicalCard` mutation is called before 24 hours pass, it returns an error.
    :::
3. The cardholder **consents** to the operation.
1. The cardholder enters their **original PIN** at an ATM ([reminder: a card's PIN never changes](./index.mdx#pin)).

:::info View PIN
- You can display the cardholder's PIN [with the API](./guide-view-info.mdx#view-pin).
- If you use Swan's Web Banking interface, the [cardholder can view their PIN](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/16423151195677-View-card-numbers-and-PIN#h_01HND9G193R7CQV275TSGZ59RC) themselves.
:::

Commit message:

DOC-841 clarify physical card status after consenting to unblock

docs/topics/cards/physical/guide-block-unblock.mdx, after:

---
title: Block & unblock physical cards
---

# Block & unblock physical cards

:::caution Blocked for incorrect PIN attempts
If a card was blocked without request, it might be because the cardholder made too many [incorrect attempts to enter their PIN](./index.mdx#pin-incorrect-attempts).
:::

## Temporarily block a physical card {#block}

You can temporarily suspend a physical card with the [`suspendPhysicalCard` mutation](https://explorer.swan.io?query=bXV0YXRpb24gQmxvY2tQaHlzaWNhbENhcmQgewogIHN1c3BlbmRQaHlzaWNhbENhcmQoaW5wdXQ6IHsgY2FyZElkOiAiIiB9KSB7CiAgICAuLi4gb24gU3VzcGVuZFBoeXNpY2FsQ2FyZFN1Y2Nlc3NQYXlsb2FkIHsKICAgICAgX190eXBlbmFtZQogICAgfQogIH0KfQo%3D&tab=api).

## Unblock a physical card {#unblock}

To unblock a physical card with the [`resumePhysicalCard` mutation](https://explorer.swan.io?query=bXV0YXRpb24gVW5ibG9ja1BoeXNpY2FsQ2FyZCB7CiAgcmVzdW1lUGh5c2ljYWxDYXJkKGlucHV0OiB7IGNhcmRJZDogIiIsIGNvbnNlbnRSZWRpcmVjdFVybDogIiIgfSkgewogICAgLi4uIG9uIFJlc3VtZVBoeXNpY2FsQ2FyZFN1Y2Nlc3NQYXlsb2FkIHsKICAgICAgX190eXBlbmFtZQogICAgICBjb25zZW50IHsKICAgICAgICBjb25zZW50VXJsCiAgICAgIH0KICAgIH0KICB9Cn0K&tab=api), you must:

- Be signed in.
- Use a user access token in the name of the card's account member.

A `consentUrl` is returned inviting the user to start the Strong Customer Authentication with Swan.

If you **chose to block the card**, the card can be used immediately after you unblock it.

## Unblock after 3 incorrect PIN attempts {#unblock-pin}

If a card was blocked because the PIN was entered incorrectly 3 times, the **cardholder** must complete the process to resume the card, with one potential interaction from your side depending on your integration.

1. **Wait 24 hours** from the last incorrect PIN attempt.
1. You or the cardholder call the `resumePhysicalCard` mutation to start the unblocking process:
    - **Cardholder**: In Swan's Web Banking interface, clicking **Unblock** calls this mutation. Refer to Swan's [Support Center](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/16351372133789-Unblocking-your-card-after-three-incorrect-PIN-attempts) for more information. If you don't use Swan's Web Banking, consider designing your integration with a similar action.
    - **You**: If your integration doesn't allow the cardholder to do so, you need to [call the mutation](https://explorer.swan.io?query=bXV0YXRpb24gVW5ibG9ja1BoeXNpY2FsQ2FyZCB7CiAgcmVzdW1lUGh5c2ljYWxDYXJkKGlucHV0OiB7IGNhcmRJZDogIiIsIGNvbnNlbnRSZWRpcmVjdFVybDogIiIgfSkgewogICAgLi4uIG9uIFJlc3VtZVBoeXNpY2FsQ2FyZFN1Y2Nlc3NQYXlsb2FkIHsKICAgICAgX190eXBlbmFtZQogICAgICBjb25zZW50IHsKICAgICAgICBjb25zZW50VXJsCiAgICAgIH0KICAgIH0KICB9Cn0K&tab=api).
    :::caution Wait 24 hours
    If the `resumePhysicalCard` mutation is called before 24 hours pass, it returns an error.
    :::
3. The cardholder **consents** to the operation.
    - After receiving consent, the [physical card status](./index.mdx#statuses) returns from `Suspended` to its previous status, `ToActivate`. If the card is in the [renewal process](./index.mdx#renew-statuses), the status returns to `Renewed`.
1. The cardholder enters their **original PIN** at an ATM ([reminder: a card's PIN never changes](./index.mdx#pin)).

:::info View PIN
- You can display the cardholder's PIN [with the API](./guide-view-info.mdx#view-pin).
- If you use Swan's Web Banking interface, the [cardholder can view their PIN](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/16423151195677-View-card-numbers-and-PIN#h_01HND9G193R7CQV275TSGZ59RC) themselves.
:::
