docs/topics/accounts/closure/guide-close-unlimited.mdx, before:

---
title: Close an unlimited account
---

# Close an `Unlimited` account {#unlimited}

## Step 1: Submit closure request {#unlimited-submit}

import SubmitClosureRequestUnlimited from './_partner-close-account.mdx';

<SubmitClosureRequestUnlimited />
4. Additionally, make sure to tell Swan *when* you'd like the account to close.
There are **three options**, explained in the following table.

| Option | Explanation | Requirements |
| :---: | --- | --- |
| 1 | Account closed in 60 days | *None* |
| 2 | Account closed on a specific date more than 60 days in the future | Share the specific date with Swan |
| 3 | Account closed on a specific date within fewer than 60 days | Provide signed document with consent from account holder (contractual evidence) |

5. If you choose option 3, **send Swan the contractual evidence**.
    - Contractual evidence is a document signed by the account holder stating that they agree to close their Swan account on the specific date.
    - The document is required by law to close an account within fewer than 60 days.

## Step 2: Swan reviews request {#unlimited-review}

Before notifying the account holder of their upcoming account closure, Swan confirms several details:

1. If the **account status** is `Suspended`, the account holder is already communicating with Swan about the suspension. The same Swan team takes over account closure.
1. If the account balance is **negative**, Swan asks the account holder to transfer funds to their account so the balance reaches zero.

## Step 3: Swan initiates account closure {#unlimited-initiate}

After reviewing the request, Swan initiates the actual account closure.

1. **Swan emails the account holder** informing them that their account will be closed.
    - The email specifies whether the account will close in two months or on a specific date, based on the option you selected in step 1.
    - Swan must send the email. It's generic and straightforward for all account holders.
1. Swan **changes the account status** to `Closing` after two months or on the specific date.
1. The account **undergoes the closing process**. Refer to the [account statuses](../index.mdx#statuses) section for an overview of what happens while an account is `Closing`.
1. After the account status changes to `Closed`, Swan **sends a final email** to the account holder informing them that their account is officially closed.

Commit message:

DOC-749 update account closure comms

docs/topics/accounts/closure/guide-close-unlimited.mdx, after:

---
title: Close an unlimited account
---

# Close an `Unlimited` account {#unlimited}

## Step 1: Submit closure request {#unlimited-submit}

import SubmitClosureRequestUnlimited from './_partner-close-account.mdx';

<SubmitClosureRequestUnlimited />
4. Additionally, make sure to tell Swan *when* you'd like the account to close.
There are **three options**, explained in the following table.

| Option | Explanation | Requirements |
| :---: | --- | --- |
| 1 | Account closed in 60 days | *None* |
| 2 | Account closed on a specific date more than 60 days in the future | Share the specific date with Swan |
| 3 | Account closed on a specific date within fewer than 60 days | Provide signed document with consent from account holder (contractual evidence) |

5. If you choose option 3, **send Swan the contractual evidence**.
    - Contractual evidence is a document signed by the account holder stating that they agree to close their Swan account on the specific date.
    - The document is required by law to close an account within fewer than 60 days.

## Step 2: Swan reviews request {#unlimited-review}

Before notifying the account holder of their upcoming account closure, Swan confirms several details:

1. If the **account status** is `Suspended`, the account holder is already communicating with Swan about the suspension. The same Swan team takes over account closure.
1. If the account balance is **negative**, Swan asks the account holder to transfer funds to their account so the balance reaches zero.

## Step 3: Swan initiates account closure {#unlimited-initiate}

After reviewing the request, Swan initiates the actual account closure.

1. **Swan sends email notifications** about account closure. Please review the section on [email communications](./index.mdx#comms) for precise details.
1. Swan **changes the account status** to `Closing` after two months or on the specific date.
1. The account **undergoes the closing process**. Refer to the [account statuses](../index.mdx#statuses) section for an overview of what happens while an account is `Closing`.
1. After the account status changes to `Closed`, Swan **sends a final email** to the account holder informing them that their account is officially closed.
