docs/topics/accounts/closure/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Closing accounts
---

# Closing accounts

A Swan account might need to be closed for several reasons.
**You**, your **account holders** and **account legal representatives**, **Swan**, and **third parties** can all request an account be closed.

You only pay for accounts with the status `Opened`.
As soon as an account enters the closure process, the status changes to `Closing` and you're no longer charged for the account.

:::info Account statuses
Refer to the [account statuses section](../index.mdx#statuses) for an overview of what happens when an account is `Closing` or `Closed`.
:::

## Account closure processes {#processes}

The account closure process depends on who closes the account.

### Partner (you) {#closure-partner}

You can request to close accounts for your users if specific conditions are met:

1. Your end user hasn't made payments to you for two consecutive months.
1. Your end user's account is recognized as a duplicate.
1. Your end user is no longer using your product.
1. Your end user doesn't respond to your communication.

The method you'll use to request to close the account depends on the [account's payment level](../index.mdx#account-type-level), which is either `Limited` or `Unlimited`.
Find the payment level by going to your **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Accounts**, then clicking the account you're requesting to close.

Follow the guide relevant to your situation:

- [Request to close a **limited** account](./guide-close-limited.mdx)
- [Request to close an **unlimited** account](./guide-close-unlimited.mdx)

When you request account closure, the reason code is `ComplianceReason`.

### Legal representative {#closure-legal-rep}

An account's legal representative can request to close an account.
You need to support them in this process by either sending them a non-expiring closure link or closing the account with the API.
Links don't expire.

Follow the guide relevant to your situation:

- [Send a link to the legal representative to close the account](./guide-close-link.mdx)
- [Use the API to close an account by legal representative request](./guide-close-api.mdx)

Please note that only Swan can act on `Suspended` accounts.
Legal representatives can't close accounts with the status `Suspended`.

When the legal representative requests account closure, the reason code is `PartnerReason`.

### Account holder {#closure-account-holder}

An account holder or legal representative can request to close an account by contacting Swan Support directly.
Send your users the [Swan Support Center](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/14642306196765-Account-closure-process)  article explaining the process to initiate account closure.

When they contact Swan Support to request account closure, the reason code is `ComplianceReason`.

### Swan {#closure-swan}

Swan reserves the right to close accounts, and might decide to close an account for the following reasons:

1. The account holder's identity document looks fake, stolen, or altered; the device used to complete an identification is altered; or the applicant seems to have performed their identification against their will.
1. Suspicion of other fraudulent activity or activities that aren't compliant with Swan's policies.
1. The onboarding, identification, or Know Your Customer (KYC) process wasn't completed.
1. The Partner (you) is no longer working with Swan.

When closing accounts, Swan is required by law to provide a  **two-month notice** period.
More specifically, Swan waits 60 days after notifying the account holder to change the account status to `Closing`.
This provides the account holder with enough time to open an account at another financial institution before losing access to their Swan account.

Swan **can close accounts immediately** if the closure is due to fraud or a third-party request.
When Swan closes an account, the reason code is `ComplianceReason`.

### Third party {#closure-third-party}

Swan can receive requests from third parties to close accounts.
For example, **liquidators** can request account closure if the account holder's company is being liquidated.
Additionally, **notaries** can request account closure in the case of the account holder's death.

Before accepting requests from third parties, Swan performs the following actions:

1. Swan confirms the request is **legitimate**. If the request is fraudulent, Swan doesn't comply.
1. Swan **checks the account balance**.
    - Zero balance: No action required.
    - Positive balance: Swan requests bank details from the third party, then transfers the funds.
    - Negative balance: Swan requests the third party transfer funds so the balance reaches zero.

When the account balance reaches zero, Swan changes the account status to `Closed` immediately for legitimate third-party requests.
The reason code for this account closure is `ComplianceReason`.

## Email communications {#comms}

Swan notifies your end users about account closure by email according to your communication preferences: you (partner) only, you and the end user, or end user only.
Refer to the tab for your communication preferences.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="partner" label="🔒 You (partner) only" default>
    <div>
:::caution communication preferences
Swan is dedicated to respecting your communication preferences.
However, notifying end users about account closure is a legal requirement and **can't be removed** from the user flow.

Please consider the following timelines in your implementation.
Other than immediate closure, you're notified first and can therefore notify your users about their account before the closure date.
:::
        <table>
            <tr>
                <th>Timeline</th>
                <th>Overview</th>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Immediate closure<br />*2 emails*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of account closure sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li><li>**Immediately**: Separate notification of account closure sent to you.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Closure within 60 days<br />*3 emails*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of the account closure date sent to you only.</li><li>**On closure date**: Notification of account closure sent to you.</li><li>**On closure date**: Separate notification of account closure sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Closure in 60 days or more<br />*4 emails*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of the account closure date sent to you only.</li><li>**A month before closure date**: Reminder of account closure sent to you only.</li><li>**On closure date**: Notification of account closure sent to you.</li><li>**On closure date**: Separate notification of account closure sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
        </table>
    </div>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="partner-user" label="👥 You & the end user" default>
    <div>
        <table>
            <tr>
                <th>Timeline</th>
                <th>Overview</th>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Immediate closure<br />*1 email*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of account closure sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Closure within 60 days<br />*2 emails*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of the account closure date sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li><li>**On closure date**: Notification of account closure sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Closure in 60 days or more<br />*3 emails*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of the account closure date sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li><li>**A month before closure date**: Reminder of the account closure date sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li><li>**On closure date**: Notification of account closure sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
        </table>
    </div>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="user" label="👤 End user only" default>
    <div>
        <table>
            <tr>
                <th>Timeline</th>
                <th>Overview</th>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Immediate closure<br />*1 email*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of account closure sent to the end user.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Closure within 60 days<br />*2 emails*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of the account closure date sent to the end user.</li><li>**On closure date**: Notification of account closure sent to the end user.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Closure in 60 days or more<br />*3 emails*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of the account closure date sent to the end user.</li><li>**A month before closure date**: Reminder of the account closure date sent to the end user.</li><li>**On closure date**: Notification of account closure sent to the end user.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
        </table>
    </div>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Guides {#guides}

- [Send a link to the legal representative to close the account](./guide-close-link.mdx)
- [Use the API to close an account by legal representative request](./guide-close-api.mdx)
- [Close a limited account](./guide-close-limited.mdx)
- [Close an unlimited account](./guide-close-unlimited.mdx)

Commit message:

DOC-1252/highlight-instant-actions-in-the-closing-process (#516)
* Update index.mdx

* Update index.mdx

docs/topics/accounts/closure/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Closing accounts
---

# Closing accounts

A Swan account might need to be closed for several reasons.
**You**, your **account holders** and **account legal representatives**, **Swan**, and **third parties** can all request an account be closed.

You only pay for accounts with the status `Opened`.
As soon as an account enters the closure process, the status changes to `Closing` and you're no longer charged for the account.

:::info Account statuses
Refer to the [account statuses section](../index.mdx#statuses) for an overview of what happens when an account is `Closing` or `Closed`.
:::

## When the closure process begins {#closure-begins}

When an account enters the `Closing` status, the following resources are **canceled instantly**:

- All [cards](../../cards/index.mdx) associated with the account.
- All [standing orders](../../payments/credit-transfers/sepa/index.mdx#standing-orders).
- All [virtual IBANs](../ibans/index.mdx#virtual).

Additionally, incoming SEPA Credit Transfers are automatically returned, payment mandates for incoming SEPA Direct Debits are canceled, and any attempted incoming SEPA Direct Debit is rejected.
Your users must cancel all outgoing SEPA Direct Debits themselves, as Swan has no control over those payment mandates.

## Account closure processes {#processes}

The account closure process depends on who closes the account.

### Partner (you) {#closure-partner}

You can request to close accounts for your users if specific conditions are met:

1. Your end user hasn't made payments to you for two consecutive months.
1. Your end user's account is recognized as a duplicate.
1. Your end user is no longer using your product.
1. Your end user doesn't respond to your communication.

The method you'll use to request to close the account depends on the [account's payment level](../index.mdx#account-type-level), which is either `Limited` or `Unlimited`.
Find the payment level by going to your **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Accounts**, then clicking the account you're requesting to close.

Follow the guide relevant to your situation:

- [Request to close a **limited** account](./guide-close-limited.mdx)
- [Request to close an **unlimited** account](./guide-close-unlimited.mdx)

When you request account closure, the reason code is `ComplianceReason`.

### Legal representative {#closure-legal-rep}

An account's legal representative can request to close an account.
You need to support them in this process by either sending them a non-expiring closure link or closing the account with the API.
Links don't expire.

Follow the guide relevant to your situation:

- [Send a link to the legal representative to close the account](./guide-close-link.mdx)
- [Use the API to close an account by legal representative request](./guide-close-api.mdx)

Please note that only Swan can act on `Suspended` accounts.
Legal representatives can't close accounts with the status `Suspended`.

When the legal representative requests account closure, the reason code is `PartnerReason`.

### Account holder {#closure-account-holder}

An account holder or legal representative can request to close an account by contacting Swan Support directly.
Send your users the [Swan Support Center](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/14642306196765-Account-closure-process)  article explaining the process to initiate account closure.

When they contact Swan Support to request account closure, the reason code is `ComplianceReason`.

### Swan {#closure-swan}

Swan reserves the right to close accounts, and might decide to close an account for the following reasons:

1. The account holder's identity document looks fake, stolen, or altered; the device used to complete an identification is altered; or the applicant seems to have performed their identification against their will.
1. Suspicion of other fraudulent activity or activities that aren't compliant with Swan's policies.
1. The onboarding, identification, or Know Your Customer (KYC) process wasn't completed.
1. The Partner (you) is no longer working with Swan.

When closing accounts, Swan is required by law to provide a  **two-month notice** period.
More specifically, Swan waits 60 days after notifying the account holder to change the account status to `Closing`.
This provides the account holder with enough time to open an account at another financial institution before losing access to their Swan account.

Swan **can close accounts immediately** if the closure is due to fraud or a third-party request.
When Swan closes an account, the reason code is `ComplianceReason`.

### Third party {#closure-third-party}

Swan can receive requests from third parties to close accounts.
For example, **liquidators** can request account closure if the account holder's company is being liquidated.
Additionally, **notaries** can request account closure in the case of the account holder's death.

Before accepting requests from third parties, Swan performs the following actions:

1. Swan confirms the request is **legitimate**. If the request is fraudulent, Swan doesn't comply.
1. Swan **checks the account balance**.
    - Zero balance: No action required.
    - Positive balance: Swan requests bank details from the third party, then transfers the funds.
    - Negative balance: Swan requests the third party transfer funds so the balance reaches zero.

When the account balance reaches zero, Swan changes the account status to `Closed` immediately for legitimate third-party requests.
The reason code for this account closure is `ComplianceReason`.

## Email communications {#comms}

Swan notifies your end users about account closure by email according to your communication preferences: you (partner) only, you and the end user, or end user only.
Refer to the tab for your communication preferences.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="partner" label="🔒 You (partner) only" default>
    <div>
:::caution communication preferences
Swan is dedicated to respecting your communication preferences.
However, notifying end users about account closure is a legal requirement and **can't be removed** from the user flow.

Please consider the following timelines in your implementation.
Other than immediate closure, you're notified first and can therefore notify your users about their account before the closure date.
:::
        <table>
            <tr>
                <th>Timeline</th>
                <th>Overview</th>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Immediate closure<br />*2 emails*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of account closure sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li><li>**Immediately**: Separate notification of account closure sent to you.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Closure within 60 days<br />*3 emails*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of the account closure date sent to you only.</li><li>**On closure date**: Notification of account closure sent to you.</li><li>**On closure date**: Separate notification of account closure sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Closure in 60 days or more<br />*4 emails*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of the account closure date sent to you only.</li><li>**A month before closure date**: Reminder of account closure sent to you only.</li><li>**On closure date**: Notification of account closure sent to you.</li><li>**On closure date**: Separate notification of account closure sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
        </table>
    </div>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="partner-user" label="👥 You & the end user" default>
    <div>
        <table>
            <tr>
                <th>Timeline</th>
                <th>Overview</th>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Immediate closure<br />*1 email*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of account closure sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Closure within 60 days<br />*2 emails*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of the account closure date sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li><li>**On closure date**: Notification of account closure sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Closure in 60 days or more<br />*3 emails*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of the account closure date sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li><li>**A month before closure date**: Reminder of the account closure date sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li><li>**On closure date**: Notification of account closure sent to the end user, with you in copy.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
        </table>
    </div>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="user" label="👤 End user only" default>
    <div>
        <table>
            <tr>
                <th>Timeline</th>
                <th>Overview</th>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Immediate closure<br />*1 email*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of account closure sent to the end user.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Closure within 60 days<br />*2 emails*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of the account closure date sent to the end user.</li><li>**On closure date**: Notification of account closure sent to the end user.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Closure in 60 days or more<br />*3 emails*</td>
                <td><ol><li>**Immediately**: Notification of the account closure date sent to the end user.</li><li>**A month before closure date**: Reminder of the account closure date sent to the end user.</li><li>**On closure date**: Notification of account closure sent to the end user.</li></ol></td>
            </tr>
        </table>
    </div>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Guides {#guides}

- [Send a link to the legal representative to close the account](./guide-close-link.mdx)
- [Use the API to close an account by legal representative request](./guide-close-api.mdx)
- [Close a limited account](./guide-close-limited.mdx)
- [Close an unlimited account](./guide-close-unlimited.mdx)
