docs/topics/onboarding/account-holders/guide-request-first-transfer.mdx, before:

---
title: Request a first transfer
---

# Request a first transfer

import FirstTransfer from '../../partials/_first-transfer.mdx';

<FirstTransfer />

Swan can either email your or your users to request the first transfer.
Share your preference with your Account Manager.

:::tip Prerequisite
Thoroughly review [first transfer](./index.mdx#first-transfer) requirements.
:::

## Option 1: Swan emails your user {#guide-swan}

1. Swan emails your user, requesting a first transfer.
1. Swan provides the user's Swan IBAN and BIC in the email. 
1. Your user sends a first transfer to their Swan account.
1. Swan verifies the transfer source.
1. Swan [updates the account holder verification status](./index.mdx#first-transfer-and-account-holder-verification-status) accordingly.

## Option 2: You email your user {#guide-partner}

1. Swan emails you to request a first transfer from your user.
1. You email your user, requesting a first transfer. Make sure to:
    - Include the user's Swan IBAN and BIC in the email.
    - Inform the user that transfers from third-party platforms like Lydia or PayPal aren't accepted.
1. Your user sends a first transfer to their Swan account.
1. Swan verifies the transfer source.
1. Swan [updates the account holder verification status](./index.mdx#first-transfer-and-account-holder-verification-status) accordingly.

Commit message:

DOC-1537/document-incoming-transfer-restrictions-for-limited-accounts-acpr

docs/topics/onboarding/account-holders/guide-request-first-transfer.mdx, after:

---
title: Request a first transfer
---

# Request a first transfer

import FirstTransfer from '../../partials/_first-transfer.mdx';

<FirstTransfer />

Swan can either email your or your users to request the first transfer.
Share your preference with your Account Manager.

:::tip Prerequisite
Thoroughly review [first transfer](./index.mdx#first-transfer) requirements.
:::

:::warning Limited account transfer restrictions
When sending a first transfer to a limited account, be aware of the following restrictions:

- SEPA Credit Transfers exceeding €50 are automatically rejected.
- SEPA Credit Transfers that would cause the account balance to exceed €150 are automatically rejected.
- International Credit Transfers, regardless of their amount, are automatically rejected.

These restrictions apply while the account holder is completing verification and the account remains in `Limited` status.
Users should send a first SEPA Credit Transfer of €50 or less that won't cause the balance to exceed €150.

Learn more about [limited account transfer restrictions](./index.mdx#limited-account-restrictions).
:::

## Option 1: Swan emails your user {#guide-swan}

1. Swan emails your user, requesting a first transfer.
1. Swan provides the user's Swan IBAN and BIC in the email. Swan also informs users about limited account restrictions: transfers must be €50 or less and can't cause the balance to exceed €150.
1. Your user sends a first transfer to their Swan account.
1. Swan verifies the transfer source.
1. Swan [updates the account holder verification status](./index.mdx#first-transfer-and-account-holder-verification-status) accordingly.

## Option 2: You email your user {#guide-partner}

1. Swan emails you to request a first transfer from your user.
1. You email your user, requesting a first transfer. Make sure to:
    - Include the user's Swan IBAN and BIC in the email.
    - Inform the user that transfers from third-party platforms like Lydia or PayPal aren't accepted.
    - Inform the user that while their account is limited, transfers must be €50 or less and can't cause the balance to exceed €150.
1. Your user sends a first transfer to their Swan account.
1. Swan verifies the transfer source.
1. Swan [updates the account holder verification status](./index.mdx#first-transfer-and-account-holder-verification-status) accordingly.
