docs/preview/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Upcoming features
description: Early look at features and improvements under development.
---

# Upcoming features

Get a preview of our development roadmap. Plan your integrations and stay ahead of platform changes

## Preview

These features are in active development and will be available soon. Some may be available for early testing.

<div style={{overflowX: 'auto'}}>

| Feature | Description | ETA |
|---------|-------------|-----|
| <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>[Verification of Payee](verification-of-payee)</span> | Verify beneficiary account details before initiating transfers to reduce failed payments | <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>October 9, 2025</span> |

</div>

## Beta

These features are in beta and available for testing. We use feedback to refine functionality before the full release.

<div style={{overflowX: 'auto'}}>

| Feature | Description | ETA |
|---------|-------------|-----|
| <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>[Card insurance](card-insurance)</span> | Comprehensive insurance coverage for Swan-issued cards including theft, fraud, and travel protection | <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>In private beta</span> |

</div>

Commit message:

Doc 1246/preview docs demo (#390)
* Create index.mdx

* Create verification-of-payee.mdx

* First iteration

* Improvements and restructuring

* Auto frontmatter import, removed hardcoded list

* Improved readability & conciseness

* Final restyling

* Removed category + added timeline prefix

* Improved disclaimer & added to preview tab

* Improved tabs styling

* Updated all VoP references throughout

* Doc 1251/implement upcoming badge type styling on preview docs (#392)

* Built belgian ibans page

* DOC-1251/implement-upcoming-badge-type-styling-on-preview-docs

* DOC-1250/preview-docs-implement-item-ordering (#394)

* Apply suggestions from code review: Belgian IBANs

* Apply suggestions from code review: Preview Docs

* Update sidebars.js

* Apply suggestions from code review

* Update docs/preview/index.mdx

* Preview card insurance

* Removed Upcoming feature type category (#398)

* Doc 1256/preview docs transition from the tabs model to a full docs section in (#399)

* Cleanup - keeping only migrated hierarchy but removing tabs integration

* Added top navbar entry + improved hierarchy

* Improved index + added banner + improved sidebar styling + increased preview section awareness

* Update index.mdx

* Fixing card insurance migration links

* Update card-insurance.mdx

* Styling top navbar buttons

* Slight phrasing edits

* Belgian IBANs review update

* Nico's restyle request

* Update index.js

* Update index.js

* Re-adding BE IBAN Req disclaimers

* Update index.mdx

* Update belgian-ibans.mdx

* Update belgian-ibans.mdx

* Table fix

* Update belgian-ibans.mdx

* Racene feedback

* Added many more details to belgian IBAN tables

* Update belgian-ibans.mdx

* Removing Belgian IBANs

* Revert "Removing Belgian IBANs"

This reverts commit fa8ee9847cb9d13c670053d9e1772cb2f215b507.

* Alina's feedback

* Update belgian-ibans.mdx

* Update belgian-ibans.mdx

* Update custom.css

---------

Co-authored-by: ntombing <mantombingoloyi@gmail.com>

docs/preview/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Upcoming features
description: Early look at features and improvements under development.
---

# Upcoming features

Get a preview of our development roadmap. Plan your integrations and stay ahead of platform changes

## Preview

These features are in active development and will be available soon. Some may be available for early testing.

<div style={{overflowX: 'auto'}}>

| Feature | Description | ETA |
|---------|-------------|-----|
| <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>[Verification of Payee](verification-of-payee)</span> | Verify beneficiary account details before initiating transfers to reduce failed payments | <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>October 9, 2025</span> |
| <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>[Belgian IBANs](belgian-ibans)</span> | Belgian IBAN support for account holders located in Belgium | <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>November 2025</span> |

</div>

## Beta

These features are in beta and available for testing. We use feedback to refine functionality before the full release.

<div style={{overflowX: 'auto'}}>

| Feature | Description | ETA |
|---------|-------------|-----|
| <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>[Card insurance](card-insurance)</span> | Comprehensive insurance coverage for Swan-issued cards including theft, fraud, and travel protection | <span style={{whiteSpace: 'nowrap'}}>In private beta</span> |

</div>
