docs/developers/using-api/authentication/guide-impersonate.mdx, before:

---
title: Impersonate a user
---

# Impersonate a user

You can add information in your HTTP header to any GraphQL API request to [impersonate the specified user](./index.mdx#tokens-project-impersonate).
However, this method doesn't work with the OAuth 2.0 API.

:::tip Approved use cases
1. Act as the legal representative to perform [server-to-server consent](../../../topics/users/consent/index.mdx#s2s) operations.
1. Get updated or refreshed user data with a [webhook notification](../webhooks.mdx) on the `user` object.
1. Illustrate a user's problem to Partners and Swan support teams.
1. Use the Swan API on behalf of a user:
    - Without a user access token,
    - Without asking the user to reconnect, and
    - Without using the refresh token.
:::

## Guide {#guide}

To impersonate a user with a project access token:

1. Verify the user has signed into your project at least one time.
1. Collect the Swan `userId` from the OAuth 2.0 process to get a user access token.
1. Bind it with your own `userId` in your system.
1. Add the HTTP header `x-swan-user-id` **with the `userId`** (sample HTTP header line 2).

Then, you'll experience the environment as if you had used a user access token.

## HTTP header sample {#http-header}

```curl showLineNumbers
curl --location 'https://api.swan.io/live-partner/graphql' \
--header 'x-swan-user-id: 4d102f73-cc4a-4f2e-8734-e2885df95abd' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer $PROJECT_ACCESS_TOKEN' \
--data '{"query":"query accounts {\n user {\n firstName\n lastName\n mobilePhoneNumber\n id\n }\n \n \n}\n","variables":{}}'
```

Commit message:

DOC-738 add info about Sandbox users (#201)

docs/developers/using-api/authentication/guide-impersonate.mdx, after:

---
title: Impersonate a user
---

# Impersonate a user

You can add information in your HTTP header to any GraphQL API request to [impersonate the specified user](./index.mdx#tokens-project-impersonate).
However, this method doesn't work with the OAuth 2.0 API.

:::tip Approved use cases
1. Act as the legal representative to perform [server-to-server consent](../../../topics/users/consent/index.mdx#s2s) operations.
1. Get updated or refreshed user data with a [webhook notification](../webhooks.mdx) on the `user` object.
1. Illustrate a user's problem to Partners and Swan support teams.
1. Use the Swan API on behalf of a user:
    - Without a user access token,
    - Without asking the user to reconnect, and
    - Without using the refresh token.
:::

## Guide {#guide}

To impersonate a user with a project access token:

1. Verify the user has signed into your project at least one time.
1. Collect the Swan `userId` from the OAuth 2.0 [guide to get a user access token](./guide-get-token-user.mdx).
1. Bind it with your own `userId` in your system.
1. Add the HTTP header `x-swan-user-id` **with the `userId`** (sample HTTP header line 2).

Then, you'll experience the environment as if you had used a user access token.

:::caution Impersonating Sandbox users 
If a [Sandbox user](../../tools/sandbox-users.mdx#add) isn't linked to your project, you can't impersonate them.
:::

## HTTP header sample {#http-header}

```curl showLineNumbers
curl --location 'https://api.swan.io/live-partner/graphql' \
--header 'x-swan-user-id: 4d102f73-cc4a-4f2e-8734-e2885df95abd' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer $PROJECT_ACCESS_TOKEN' \
--data '{"query":"query accounts {\n user {\n firstName\n lastName\n mobilePhoneNumber\n id\n }\n \n \n}\n","variables":{}}'
```
