docs/topics/onboarding/overview/guide-get-info.mdx, before:

---
title: Get information about an onboarding
---

# Get information about an onboarding

Use the `onboardings` query to get information about your onboardings, allowing you to monitor progress or share information with your end user.

Queries are highly customizable, so use the `onboardings` query to retrieve any information that will help you follow along with your users.
You can also use it retrieve onboarding IDs.

After getting information about an onboarding, you might want to **update that onboarding** if it is still ongoing.
Refer to the guides to update an [individual](../individual/guide-update.mdx) or [company](../company/guide-update.mdx) onboarding.

:::tip Prerequisites
To monitor onboarding progress, you must have at least one existing onboarding, either [individual](../individual/guide-create.mdx) or [company](../company/guide-create.mdx).
The onboarding can have [any status](../index.mdx#statuses).
:::

## Guide

1. Call the `onboardings` query.
1. Add all the query options you'd like to monitor.
    * For this exercise, add: `createdAt`, `email`, `info` > `type`, `onboardingUrl`, `onboardingState`, `statusInfo` > `status`, `id`, and `totalCount`.
    * To `statusInfo` > `status`, add a **rejection** as well: `OnboardingInvalidStatusInfo` with `errors`, `field`, and `status`.
1. **▶ Run** your query.

:::note Note about onboarding count
Running the `onboardings` query returns a list of **all onboardings** for your project, including completed onboardings and ongoing onboardings that are valid or invalid.
The `totalCount` could be high.

**Limit how many onboardings are returned** by adding the `first` query option, then indicating the number of onboardings you'd like to review.
:::

## Query

🔎 [Open the query in API Explorer](https://explorer.swan.io?query=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&tab=api)

```graphql {5-8,10-13,14,16-18,20,23,26} showLineNumbers
query MonitorOnboarding {
  onboardings {
    edges {
      node {
        createdAt
        email
        info {
          type
        }
        onboardingUrl
        onboardingState
        statusInfo {
          status
          ... on OnboardingInvalidStatusInfo {
            __typename
            errors {
              field
              errors
            }
            status
          }
        }
        id
      }
    }
    totalCount
  }
}
```

## Payload

Review the sample payload with two `Ongoing` onboardings, one `Invalid` and one `Valid`, as well as one `Completed` onboarding with the status `Finalized`.

```json {7-8,10,12-16,19-21,26,31-32,34,36-37,39,41,46-47,49,51-52,54,56,60} showLineNumbers
{
  "data": {
    "onboardings": {
      "edges": [
        {
          "node": {
            "createdAt": "2023-06-20T14:10:39.286Z",
            "email": "alberto.moreno@mimarca.io",
            "info": {
              "type": "Company"
            },
            "onboardingUrl": "https://api.banking.swan.io/projects/$PROJECT_ID/onboardings/$ONBOARDING_ID?lang=es",
            "onboardingState": "Ongoing",
            "statusInfo": {
              "status": "Invalid",
              "__typename": "OnboardingInvalidStatusInfo",
              "errors": [
                {
                  "field": "individualUltimateBeneficialOwners[0].birthDate",
                  "errors": [
                    "Missing"
                  ]
                }
              ]
            },
            "id": "$ONBOARDING_ID"
          }
        },
        {
          "node": {
            "createdAt": "2023-06-20T14:00:20.207Z",
            "email": "sofia.ramos@mybrand.io",
            "info": {
              "type": "Individual"
            },
            "onboardingUrl": "https://api.banking.swan.io/projects/$PROJECT_ID/onboardings/$ONBOARDING_ID?lang=en",
            "onboardingState": "Ongoing",
            "statusInfo": {
              "status": "Valid"
            },
            "id": "$ONBOARDING_ID",
          }
        },
        {
          "node": {
            "createdAt": "2023-08-01T09:01:17.050Z",
            "email": "malika.ngomao@mybrand.io",
            "info": {
              "type": "Individual"
            },
            "onboardingUrl": "https://api.banking.swan.io/projects/$PROJECT_ID/onboardings/$ONBOARDING_ID?lang=fr",
            "onboardingState": "Completed",
            "statusInfo": {
              "status": "Finalized"
            },
            "id": "$ONBOARDING_ID",
          }
        },
      ],
      "totalCount": 3
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Add accounts, account onboarding, and some transactions feedback

docs/topics/onboarding/overview/guide-get-info.mdx, after:

---
title: Get information about an onboarding
---

# Get information about an onboarding

Use the `onboardings` query to get information about your onboardings, allowing you to monitor progress or share information with your end user.

Queries are highly customizable, so use the `onboardings` query to retrieve any information that will help you follow along with your users.
You can also use it retrieve onboarding IDs.

After getting information about an onboarding, you might want to **update that onboarding** if it is still ongoing.
Refer to the guides to update an [individual](../individual/guide-update.mdx) or [company](../company/guide-update.mdx) onboarding.

:::tip Prerequisites
To monitor onboarding progress, you must have at least one existing onboarding, either [individual](../individual/guide-create.mdx) or [company](../company/guide-create.mdx).
The onboarding can have [any status](../index.mdx#statuses).
:::

## Guide

1. Call the `onboardings` query.
1. Add all the query options you'd like to monitor.
    * For this exercise, add: `createdAt`, `email`, `info` > `type`, `onboardingUrl`, `onboardingState`, `statusInfo` > `status`, `id`, and `totalCount`.
    * To `statusInfo` > `status`, add a **rejection** as well: `OnboardingInvalidStatusInfo` with `errors`, `field`, and `status`.
1. You can only get information for up to **100 onboardings** at a time. Add [pagination](../../../developers/using-api/pagination.mdx) to tailor your response to the information you need.

## Query

🔎 [Open the query in API Explorer](https://explorer.swan.io?query=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&tab=api)

```graphql {5-8,10-13,14,16-18,20,23,26} showLineNumbers
query MonitorOnboarding {
  onboardings {
    edges {
      node {
        createdAt
        email
        info {
          type
        }
        onboardingUrl
        onboardingState
        statusInfo {
          status
          ... on OnboardingInvalidStatusInfo {
            __typename
            errors {
              field
              errors
            }
            status
          }
        }
        id
      }
    }
    totalCount
  }
}
```

## Payload

Review the sample payload with two `Ongoing` onboardings, one `Invalid` and one `Valid`, as well as one `Completed` onboarding with the status `Finalized`.

```json {7-8,10,12-16,19-21,26,31-32,34,36-37,39,41,46-47,49,51-52,54,56,60} showLineNumbers
{
  "data": {
    "onboardings": {
      "edges": [
        {
          "node": {
            "createdAt": "2023-06-20T14:10:39.286Z",
            "email": "alberto.moreno@mimarca.io",
            "info": {
              "type": "Company"
            },
            "onboardingUrl": "https://api.banking.swan.io/projects/$PROJECT_ID/onboardings/$ONBOARDING_ID?lang=es",
            "onboardingState": "Ongoing",
            "statusInfo": {
              "status": "Invalid",
              "__typename": "OnboardingInvalidStatusInfo",
              "errors": [
                {
                  "field": "individualUltimateBeneficialOwners[0].birthDate",
                  "errors": [
                    "Missing"
                  ]
                }
              ]
            },
            "id": "$ONBOARDING_ID"
          }
        },
        {
          "node": {
            "createdAt": "2023-06-20T14:00:20.207Z",
            "email": "sofia.ramos@mybrand.io",
            "info": {
              "type": "Individual"
            },
            "onboardingUrl": "https://api.banking.swan.io/projects/$PROJECT_ID/onboardings/$ONBOARDING_ID?lang=en",
            "onboardingState": "Ongoing",
            "statusInfo": {
              "status": "Valid"
            },
            "id": "$ONBOARDING_ID",
          }
        },
        {
          "node": {
            "createdAt": "2023-08-01T09:01:17.050Z",
            "email": "malika.ngomao@mybrand.io",
            "info": {
              "type": "Individual"
            },
            "onboardingUrl": "https://api.banking.swan.io/projects/$PROJECT_ID/onboardings/$ONBOARDING_ID?lang=fr",
            "onboardingState": "Completed",
            "statusInfo": {
              "status": "Finalized"
            },
            "id": "$ONBOARDING_ID",
          }
        },
      ],
      "totalCount": 3
    }
  }
}
```
