docs/topics/capital-deposits/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Capital deposits overview
---

# Capital deposits

import CapitalDepositDefinition from "../definitions/_capital-deposit.mdx";

> <CapitalDepositDefinition />

When **creating a new company**, you're required to **deposit your share capital** before registering the company.

## Overview {#overview}

Several key stakeholders are involved in the capital deposit process: **you**; **your client**, their future company, and their shareholders; **Swan** (and Swan's API); and Swan's partner **notary**.

The capital deposit process consists of a few main actions:

- Creating a Swan capital deposit case to collect everything
- Creating Swan accounts
- Verifying identities
- Uploading documents
- Transferring funds

Learn more about the stakeholders and their interactions to complete a capital deposit on this page before continuing to the [guide for 🇫🇷 France](./france/guide.mdx).

## Capital deposit case {#case}

The [`CapitalDepositCase`](https://api-reference.swan.io/objects/capital-deposit-case) API object compiles all information for a capital deposit case, including:

1. Details about the future company
1. Company account
1. Shareholder information
1. Capital deposit documents

### Case statuses {#case-statuses}

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'linear' } } }%%
flowchart LR
    DC((Capital deposit<br/>case created)) -.-> WR[WaitingFor<br/>Requirements]
    WR -.-> WS[WaitingForShare<br/>DepositCertificate<br/><em>Notary</em>]
    WS -.-> WRE[WaitingFor<br/>RegisterExtract]
    WRE -.-> WNT[WaitingFor<br/>NotaryTransfer<br/><em>Notary</em>]
    WNT -.-> CA[Canceled]
    WRE -.-> CA
    WS -.-> CA
    WR -.-> CA
    WNT -.-> CO[Completed]
    subgraph V[Valid]
        CO
    end
    subgraph F[Final status]
        CA
        V
    end
    style DC fill:#D4D3D5,stroke:#514F59
    style F fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
    style WS stroke-width:2px, stroke-dasharray: 5 5
    style WNT stroke-width:2px, stroke-dasharray: 5 5
    style V fill:#dfedf2,stroke:#4d8296,stroke-width:3px
```

| Case status| Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `WaitingForRequirements` | Default status after the `CapitalDepositCase` is created, providing there were no technical issues.<br/><br/>You complete the company onboarding process and upload required documents to pass to the next status. |
| `WaitingForShareDepositCertificate` | **_Notary reviews_** _the deposited funds and submitted documents, then creates the certificate and uploads it to Swan_. |
| `WaitingForRegisterExtract` | You upload your register extract for notary review. |
| `WaitingForNotaryTransfer` | **_Notary reviews_** _the register extract_. |
| `Canceled` | You can request to cancel a `CapitalDepositCase` any time before completion by sending an email to support@swan.io. When a case is canceled, the shareholder is also canceled. |
| `Completed` | Notary reviewed and approved all elements and transferred the funds to the new company; the process is complete. |

## Required documents {#documents}

Processing your capital shares deposit **requires several documents**.
These can be uploading using the API.
Documents must meet Swan's requirements; otherwise, the document will be assigned the status `Refused` and you'll need to upload the document again.

### List of required documents {#documents-list}

All documents are **mandatory** unless marked _if requested_.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Stakeholder </th>
    <th>Document</th>
    <th>API document type</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Individual shareholders</td>
    <td>Proof of address</td>
    <td>
      <code>ProofOfIndividualAddress</code>
      <br />
      <em>
        See <a href="#shareholders-address">proof of address</a> section
      </em>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      Identity document proving the shareholder's identity (collected during identification)
    </td>
    <td>
      <code>ProofOfIdentity</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">Company shareholders</td>
    <td>
      Document available only after the notary validates the case, uploaded
      during at a specific time during the capital deposit process
    </td>
    <td>
      <code>RegisterExtract</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Draft of the articles of incorporation</td>
    <td>
      <code>ArticlesOfIncorporation</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      Company's most recent tax statement <em>(if requested)</em>
    </td>
    <td>
      <code>CorporateIncomeTaxReturn</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      Identity document proving the shareholder's identity (collected during
      identification)
    </td>
    <td>
      <code>ProofOfIdentity</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Future company</td>
    <td>Draft of the articles of incorporation</td>
    <td>
      <code>ArticlesOfIncorporation</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Lease agreement for official company address</td>
    <td>
      <code>CompanyLeaseAgreement</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Lease Mandate from legal representative</td>
    <td>
      <code>PowerOfAttorney</code>
      <br />
      <em>Template available in French</em>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Document statuses {#documents-statuses}

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'linear' } } }%%
flowchart LR
    DC((Document<br/>created)) -..-> P[Pending]
    P -..-> U[Uploaded]
    U -..-> RF[Refused]
    RF -..-> U
    U -..-> V[Validated]
    subgraph F[Final status]
        V
    end
    style DC fill:#D4D3D5,stroke:#514F59
    style F fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
```

| Document status | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `Pending`   | Place for the document is created, but the document isn't uploaded yet. |
| `Uploaded`  | Document successfully uploaded; you can change and re-upload the document as long it retains the status `Uploaded`<br/><br/>**Next step**: Swan reviews the document and either validates or refuses it. |
| `Validated` | Swan validated the document. |
| `Refused`   | Document doesn't meet requirements.<br/><br/>**Next step**: Upload a new document, then the status returns to `Uploaded`. |

## Shareholders {#shareholders}

A shareholder is a physical or legal person who deposits funds in exchange for ownership of the future company.
In order to deposit funds, the shareholder opens a **temporary** Swan payment account.

Because they're opening an account, each shareholder must go through the [onboarding](../onboarding/index.mdx), [identification](../users/identifications/index.mdx), and [account holder verification](../onboarding/account-holders/index.mdx#verification-process) processes.
After completing requirements, the shareholder's account is assigned an IBAN they can use to deposit funds.

As soon as the `CapitalDepositCase` is complete, the shareholder's temporary account **closes automatically**.

### Proof of address {#shareholders-address}

Shareholders must provide proof of their residence address.
Only official documents will be validated.

Acceptable documents:

1. Are one of the following document types:
   1. Internet or utility (water, gas, electricity) bill. 
   1. Latest tax notice (issued by a tax authority with details about taxes due).
   1. Latest housing tax notice.
   1. Professional rent receipt.
   1. Home insurance provider statement.
   1. Utility provider statement.
1. Include the **shareholder's full name** and **residence address**.
1. Are **officially issued** from:
    1. A utility services provider for water, energy, internet, or housing phone bills.
    1. A government authority.
    1. A professional lessor for rent receipts.
1. Are **fewer than three months old**, or the **latest document** issued from a government authority.

:::note document support
If you aren't sure a document complies with these requirements, please send an email to kyc@swan.io.
:::

### Shareholder statuses {#shareholders-statuses}

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'linear' } } }%%
flowchart LR
    SC((Shareholder<br/>created)) -.-> P[Pending<br/>Onboarding]
    P -.-> WV[WaitingFor<br/>Verification]
    WV -.-> WT[WaitingFor<br/>Transfer]
    WT -.-> CT[Capital<br/>Transferred]
    CT -.-> CN[CapitalFunds<br/>WiredToNotary]
    P -.-> CDC[CapitalDepositCanceled]
    WV -.-> CDC
    WT -.-> CDC
    subgraph COM[Complete]
        CN
    end
    subgraph F[Final status]
        CDC
        COM
    end
    style SC fill:#D4D3D5,stroke:#514F59
    style COM fill:#dfedf2,stroke:#4d8296,stroke-width:3px
    style F fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
```

| Shareholder status | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `PendingOnboarding` | Default status after the shareholder is created; shareholder must **complete their onboarding** and their **account must be created** to continue. |
| `WaitingForVerification` | Possible status if the account holder verification isn't complete at the moment the shareholder's account is created.<br/><br/>_Status bypassed if the [account holder status](../onboarding/account-holders/index.mdx#verification-process) is already `Verified`_. |
| `WaitingForTransfer` | Waiting for the shareholder to deposit the full share capital in their Swan account created during onboarding, which **must** be transferred from an account belonging to the shareholder. |
| `CapitalTransferred` | Waiting for the rest of the capital deposit case to be ready and the funds to be transferred to the notary. |
| `CapitalFundsWiredToNotary` | Still waiting for the rest of the capital deposit case to be ready, but now the funds are with the notary. |
| `CapitalDepositCanceled` | When a [`CapitalDepositCase` is `Canceled`](#case-statuses), the shareholder status changes to `CapitalDepositCanceled`.<br/><br/>If an account was already created for the shareholder, the account is also closed automatically. |

## Sequence diagram {#diagram}

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
autonumber
participant SH as Shareholder
participant P as Partner
participant S as Swan
participant N as Notary
    P->>S: Creates capital deposit case
    P->>S: Finalizes shareholder and company account onboarding
    SH->>S: Completes identification
    P->>S: Uploads required documents
    SH->>S: Transfers capital to their new Swan account
    S ->> N: Sends documents and transfers funds
    N -->> S: Uploads capital share deposit certificate
    S ->> P: Downloads certificate
    P -->> S: Uploads proof of registration
    S ->> N: Sends proof of registration & bank account details
    N -->> S: Transfers funds to Swan company account
```

## Canceling a capital deposit {#cancel}

If needed, it's possible to cancel an ongoing capital deposit.

import CancelCase from './partials/_cancel-case.mdx';

<CancelCase />

Follow the guide to [cancel a capital deposit](./guide-cancel.mdx).

Commit message:

DOC-743 add proof of address to doc center

docs/topics/capital-deposits/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Capital deposits overview
---

# Capital deposits

import CapitalDepositDefinition from "../definitions/_capital-deposit.mdx";

> <CapitalDepositDefinition />

When **creating a new company**, you're required to **deposit your share capital** before registering the company.

## Overview {#overview}

Several key stakeholders are involved in the capital deposit process: **you**; **your client**, their future company, and their shareholders; **Swan** (and Swan's API); and Swan's partner **notary**.

The capital deposit process consists of a few main actions:

- Creating a Swan capital deposit case to collect everything
- Creating Swan accounts
- Verifying identities
- Uploading documents
- Transferring funds

Learn more about the stakeholders and their interactions to complete a capital deposit on this page before continuing to the [guide for 🇫🇷 France](./france/guide.mdx).

## Capital deposit case {#case}

The [`CapitalDepositCase`](https://api-reference.swan.io/objects/capital-deposit-case) API object compiles all information for a capital deposit case, including:

1. Details about the future company
1. Company account
1. Shareholder information
1. Capital deposit documents

### Case statuses {#case-statuses}

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'linear' } } }%%
flowchart LR
    DC((Capital deposit<br/>case created)) -.-> WR[WaitingFor<br/>Requirements]
    WR -.-> WS[WaitingForShare<br/>DepositCertificate<br/><em>Notary</em>]
    WS -.-> WRE[WaitingFor<br/>RegisterExtract]
    WRE -.-> WNT[WaitingFor<br/>NotaryTransfer<br/><em>Notary</em>]
    WNT -.-> CA[Canceled]
    WRE -.-> CA
    WS -.-> CA
    WR -.-> CA
    WNT -.-> CO[Completed]
    subgraph V[Valid]
        CO
    end
    subgraph F[Final status]
        CA
        V
    end
    style DC fill:#D4D3D5,stroke:#514F59
    style F fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
    style WS stroke-width:2px, stroke-dasharray: 5 5
    style WNT stroke-width:2px, stroke-dasharray: 5 5
    style V fill:#dfedf2,stroke:#4d8296,stroke-width:3px
```

| Case status| Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `WaitingForRequirements` | Default status after the `CapitalDepositCase` is created, providing there were no technical issues.<br/><br/>You complete the company onboarding process and upload required documents to pass to the next status. |
| `WaitingForShareDepositCertificate` | **_Notary reviews_** _the deposited funds and submitted documents, then creates the certificate and uploads it to Swan_. |
| `WaitingForRegisterExtract` | You upload your register extract for notary review. |
| `WaitingForNotaryTransfer` | **_Notary reviews_** _the register extract_. |
| `Canceled` | You can request to cancel a `CapitalDepositCase` any time before completion by sending an email to support@swan.io. When a case is canceled, the shareholder is also canceled. |
| `Completed` | Notary reviewed and approved all elements and transferred the funds to the new company; the process is complete. |

## Required documents {#documents}

Processing your capital shares deposit **requires several documents**.
These can be uploading using the API.
Documents must meet Swan's requirements; otherwise, the document will be assigned the status `Refused` and you'll need to upload the document again.

### List of required documents {#documents-list}

All documents are **mandatory** unless marked _if requested_.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Stakeholder </th>
    <th>Document</th>
    <th>API document type</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Individual shareholders</td>
    <td>Proof of address</td>
    <td>
      <code>ProofOfIndividualAddress</code>
      <br />
      <em>
        See <a href="#shareholders-address">proof of address</a> section
      </em>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      Identity document proving the shareholder's identity (collected during identification)
    </td>
    <td>
      <code>ProofOfIdentity</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">Company shareholders</td>
    <td>
      Document available only after the notary validates the case, uploaded
      during at a specific time during the capital deposit process
    </td>
    <td>
      <code>RegisterExtract</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Draft of the articles of incorporation</td>
    <td>
      <code>ArticlesOfIncorporation</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      Company's most recent tax statement <em>(if requested)</em>
    </td>
    <td>
      <code>CorporateIncomeTaxReturn</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      Identity document proving the shareholder's identity (collected during
      identification)
    </td>
    <td>
      <code>ProofOfIdentity</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Future company</td>
    <td>Draft of the articles of incorporation</td>
    <td>
      <code>ArticlesOfIncorporation</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Lease agreement for official company address</td>
    <td>
      <code>CompanyLeaseAgreement</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Lease Mandate from legal representative</td>
    <td>
      <code>PowerOfAttorney</code>
      <br />
      <em>Template available in French</em>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Document statuses {#documents-statuses}

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'linear' } } }%%
flowchart LR
    DC((Document<br/>created)) -..-> P[Pending]
    P -..-> U[Uploaded]
    U -..-> RF[Refused]
    RF -..-> U
    U -..-> V[Validated]
    subgraph F[Final status]
        V
    end
    style DC fill:#D4D3D5,stroke:#514F59
    style F fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
```

| Document status | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `Pending`   | Place for the document is created, but the document isn't uploaded yet. |
| `Uploaded`  | Document successfully uploaded; you can change and re-upload the document as long it retains the status `Uploaded`<br/><br/>**Next step**: Swan reviews the document and either validates or refuses it. |
| `Validated` | Swan validated the document. |
| `Refused`   | Document doesn't meet requirements.<br/><br/>**Next step**: Upload a new document, then the status returns to `Uploaded`. |

## Shareholders {#shareholders}

A shareholder is a physical or legal person who deposits funds in exchange for ownership of the future company.
In order to deposit funds, the shareholder opens a **temporary** Swan payment account.

Because they're opening an account, each shareholder must go through the [onboarding](../onboarding/index.mdx), [identification](../users/identifications/index.mdx), and [account holder verification](../onboarding/account-holders/index.mdx#verification-process) processes.
After completing requirements, the shareholder's account is assigned an IBAN they can use to deposit funds.

As soon as the `CapitalDepositCase` is complete, the shareholder's temporary account **closes automatically**.

### Proof of address {#shareholders-address}

Shareholders must provide proof of their residence address.
Only official documents are validated.
Refer to the **list of acceptable documents** in the [Partnership Document Center](../../partnership/document-center/proof-address/index.mdx).

### Shareholder statuses {#shareholders-statuses}

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'linear' } } }%%
flowchart LR
    SC((Shareholder<br/>created)) -.-> P[Pending<br/>Onboarding]
    P -.-> WV[WaitingFor<br/>Verification]
    WV -.-> WT[WaitingFor<br/>Transfer]
    WT -.-> CT[Capital<br/>Transferred]
    CT -.-> CN[CapitalFunds<br/>WiredToNotary]
    P -.-> CDC[CapitalDepositCanceled]
    WV -.-> CDC
    WT -.-> CDC
    subgraph COM[Complete]
        CN
    end
    subgraph F[Final status]
        CDC
        COM
    end
    style SC fill:#D4D3D5,stroke:#514F59
    style COM fill:#dfedf2,stroke:#4d8296,stroke-width:3px
    style F fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
```

| Shareholder status | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `PendingOnboarding` | Default status after the shareholder is created; shareholder must **complete their onboarding** and their **account must be created** to continue. |
| `WaitingForVerification` | Possible status if the account holder verification isn't complete at the moment the shareholder's account is created.<br/><br/>_Status bypassed if the [account holder status](../onboarding/account-holders/index.mdx#verification-process) is already `Verified`_. |
| `WaitingForTransfer` | Waiting for the shareholder to deposit the full share capital in their Swan account created during onboarding, which **must** be transferred from an account belonging to the shareholder. |
| `CapitalTransferred` | Waiting for the rest of the capital deposit case to be ready and the funds to be transferred to the notary. |
| `CapitalFundsWiredToNotary` | Still waiting for the rest of the capital deposit case to be ready, but now the funds are with the notary. |
| `CapitalDepositCanceled` | When a [`CapitalDepositCase` is `Canceled`](#case-statuses), the shareholder status changes to `CapitalDepositCanceled`.<br/><br/>If an account was already created for the shareholder, the account is also closed automatically. |

## Sequence diagram {#diagram}

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
autonumber
participant SH as Shareholder
participant P as Partner
participant S as Swan
participant N as Notary
    P->>S: Creates capital deposit case
    P->>S: Finalizes shareholder and company account onboarding
    SH->>S: Completes identification
    P->>S: Uploads required documents
    SH->>S: Transfers capital to their new Swan account
    S ->> N: Sends documents and transfers funds
    N -->> S: Uploads capital share deposit certificate
    S ->> P: Downloads certificate
    P -->> S: Uploads proof of registration
    S ->> N: Sends proof of registration & bank account details
    N -->> S: Transfers funds to Swan company account
```

## Canceling a capital deposit {#cancel}

If needed, it's possible to cancel an ongoing capital deposit.

import CancelCase from './partials/_cancel-case.mdx';

<CancelCase />

Follow the guide to [cancel a capital deposit](./guide-cancel.mdx).
