docs/topics/cards/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Cards overview
---

# Cards

## Overview {#overview}

import CardsOverview from '../partials/_cards-overview.mdx';

<CardsOverview />

:::tip card payments
Refer to the [card payments section](../payments/cards/index.mdx) for information about paying with your Swan cards.
:::

## Security and consent

To keep the cards you supply secure, all card-related mutations that initiate a sensitive action require consent.
Review the list of all [sensitive operations that require consent](../users/consent/index.mdx#sensitive) with Swan.

## Card formats {#formats}

import VirtualCardsDefinition from '../definitions/_cards-virtual.mdx';

import PhysicalCardsDefinition from '../definitions/_cards-physical.mdx';

import DigitalCardsDefinition from '../definitions/_cards-digital.mdx';

Swan offers three card formats.

| Card formats | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [Virtual](./virtual/index.mdx) | <VirtualCardsDefinition /> |
| [Physical](./physical/index.mdx) | <PhysicalCardsDefinition /> |
| [Digital](./digital/index.mdx) | <DigitalCardsDefinition /> |

### Creation order {#formats-order}

Swan is enthusiastically **virtual first** (similar to digital first), meaning the priority is on a **dematerialized user experience**.

![Image displaying connection between account membership, virtual card, then digital and physical cards](../../images/topics/cards/cards-types.png)

1. Create **account memberships** before creating cards.
1. Create **virtual cards** before physical cards.
1. Create **physical** and **digital cards**. Note that physical cards aren't required to create digital cards—you can add a virtual card directly into your favorite digital wallet.

Consider the example of Kafka Tamura:

![Image displaying possible timeline between creating a virtual card, adding a digital card, and deciding to order a standard physical card](../../images/topics/cards/cards-timeline.png)

1. **Instantly**: Kafka requests and receives a virtual card, usable right away for e-commerce transactions.
1. **Day 2**: Kafka adds his virtual card to Apple Pay, digitizing the card. He uses it to make contactless payments.
1. **Day 4**: Kafka decides to add the virtual card to his Apple watch as well.
1. **Day 7**: Finally, Kafka decides to order a physical card, just in case.

### API card types {#formats-api}

There are three options for the [API enum `CardType`](https://api-reference.swan.io/enums/card-type/#cardtypevirtualandphysical).
These differ from the card formats for your users.

- `Virtual`: only the default [virtual card](./virtual/index.mdx) is issued for the card contract.
- `VirtualAndPhysical`: both a [virtual](./virtual/index.mdx) and [physical](./physical/index.mdx) card are issued for the card contract.
- `SingleUseVirtual`: the card is a [single-use virtual card](./virtual/index.mdx#suv).

## Cards and account memberships {#cards-account-memberships}

No matter how many members are attached to an account—1, 50, or 500—you can issue cards to each member.
Every member has access to the same pot of money.
Any payments made with the card are debited from the account the member belongs to.

Thus, an account membership must be created *before* adding a card for an account member.

Account members can also add cards for themselves or other account members, determined by their [membership permissions](../accounts/memberships/index.mdx#permissions-cards).

### Multiple memberships, multiple cards {#cards-account-memberships-example-multiple}

![Image displaying connection between account holder, account, multiple account memberships, and multiple cards](../../images/topics/cards/cards-flow-multiple.png)

1. MyBrand is a verified account holder with a company account.
1. As an account holder, MyBrand has one account with money in it.
1. Attached to the account are three account members: Rae, Mika, and Sasha.
    1. Each member is identified by their email address.
    1. They all have different permissions.
1. Only two members, Rae and Mika, have cards associated with their account membership. Any money spent with these cards is taken from the MyBrand company account.

### One membership, one card {#cards-account-memberships-example-one}

![Image displaying connection between account holder, account, one account membership, and one card](../../images/topics/cards/cards-flow-single.png)

1. Dillon is a verified account holder with an individual account.
1. As an account holder, Dillon has one account with money in it.
1. Dillon is the only account member, identified by her email address. She has membership and card permissions automatically.
1. Dillon also has a card associated with her account membership.

## Card language {#language}

Your card's language (the language that appears on payment terminals, for example) is usually the same as the language chosen for the Swan account.

For Swan's **no-code** and **open source** Web Banking interface, the card language is determined by the default language of the browser where the card is created.

When using the **API**, the default language is the [account language](../accounts/index.mdx#language).
You can update the default language by calling the `bindAccountMembership` mutation and adding `accept-language` to the HTTP header.
This allows the users to choose their card language.

## Card product {#card-product}

import CardProductExplanation from './partials/_card-product.mdx';

<CardProductExplanation />

Learn more about **designing** your card products in the [card design section](./design/index.mdx).

:::info Printing hub
The [printing hub](./physical/index.mdx#hubs), where **physical cards are printed then shipped** to your card holders, is defined in the card product ID.
You must have one dedicated card product per hub, though the designs can be identical.
:::

## Settings {#settings}

Use **settings to manage your card product** and all virtual, physical, and digital cards associated with it.

| Setting | Explanation | Update with |
| --- | --- | :---: |
| Name | You can name the card product for easy reference from your Dashboard. | Dashboard |
| Allow physical cards | Decide whether physical cards are allowed to be issued for this card product. | Dashboard |
| Suspend | Suspend this card product. Your users won't be able to add new cards with this card product. You'll need to contact Swan Support to reactivate the card product. | Dashboard |
| `cardContractExpiryDate` | Date you'd like the card to expire.<br /><br />Leave it empty if you don't want to set an expiration date, in which case, cards are renewed automatically every three years. | API |
| `international` | Allow or disable payments outside of the account holder's country. | API |
| `withdrawal` | Allow or disable cash withdrawals, such as at ATMs. | API |
| `nonMainCurrencyTransactions` | Allow or disable transactions outside of the card's currency. | API |
| `eCommerce` | Allow or disable transactions on eCommerce sites or for online transactions. | API |
| `spendingLimit` | Fixed by the account holder or qualifying account member, within the limits set by Swan. | API |

### International {#international}

If `international` is disabled, payments can only be made in the account holder's country. They can still pay using other currencies. For example, a card holder in France can only make payments in France, but in euros as well as other currencies.

### Non-main currency transactions {#currency}

If `nonMainCurrencyTransactions` is disabled, payments can be made in other countries, but not using other currencies. For example, a card holder in France can make payments in euros in the United Kingdom, but not in the GBP (Pound Sterling).

### Manage settings {#dashboard}

Manage card settings on your **Dashboard** > **Settings** > **Cards**.
You can (1) manage existing card products that are already validated, or (2) create a new standard card product.

![Screenshot of the Dashboard cards page with callouts on an existing card and create new option](../../images/topics/cards/cards-dashboard-settings.png)

## Spending limits {#limits}

A **spending limit** is the **maximum amount** a card holder can spend within a certain **rolling period**.
Spending limits are imposed for several reasons.

1. Companies impose spending limits to reduce fraud risk.
1. Individual card holders and companies might impose spending limits over a rolling period to protect their funds when issuing cards to other people.
    - A company might impose a 100€ spending limits over 7 days rolling for travel expenses.
    - A parent might give a card to their child, imposing a 50€ spending limit to protect their own money.
1. Financial institutions (like Swan) impose spending limits to protect themselves from liability.

:::info Rolling spending limit
A rolling period doesn't depend on a determined date, day of the week, or time.
Instead, rolling spending limits consider the amount spent over period of time.
At Swan, some types of accounts can impose rolling limits of 30 days, 7 days, and 24 hours.
:::

### Limits imposed by Swan {#limits-swan}

All spending limits are for a period of **30 days rolling**.

Note that **partners** (you) can define spending limits for all card types, while **account holders** can lower spending limits when creating cards.

| Transaction type | Impacts | Amount |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Card payment | Company **card holder** | 10,000€ per card |
| Card payment | Individual **card holder** | 5,000€ per card |
| ATM withdrawal | Company **account** holder | 3,000€ total |
| ATM withdrawal | Individual **account** holder | 1,500€ total |

Consider the following examples:

- Company card holder card transaction:
    - One of your **company card holders** has five company cards.
    - They can spend a maximum of 50,000€ between the 5 cards during a 30-day period.
    - Expenses for a single card can't exceed 10,000€.
- Individual account holder ATM withdrawal:
    - An **individual account holder** has two individual cards.
    - They can withdrawal a maximum of 1,500€ total between the 2 cards during a 30-day period.
    - They **can't withdrawal** a total of 3,000€—the maximum is per account holder.
    - The 1,500€ also counts toward their **card** transaction maximum of 5,000€ per card.

:::caution Changing spending limits
If you feel your use case requires an increased spending limit, create a ticket from your Swan Dashboard.
Swan will evaluate your need and increase the limit if approved.

Note that you can set a lower monthly `spendingLimit` by [updating the card](./overview/guide-update.mdx), but you can't set any type of additional limit for ATM withdrawals.
:::

### Limits imposed by account holders {#limits-account-holders}

Account holder spending limits **can't exceed** Swan spending limits.
If a spending limit is set that exceeds Swan's spending limits, transactions are rejected.

Companies and individual account holders can impose spending limits over three possible periods:

- 24 hours rolling (`Daily`)
- 7 days rolling (`Weekly`)
- 30 days rolling (`Monthly`)

### Cards with a lifetime limit {#limits-lifetime}

Cards with a lifetime limit allow companies and individual account holders to provide a card with a limited lifetime spending amount (`spendingLimit=Always`).
After the amount is spent, the card is no longer valid and can't be recharged.

Limited forever cards still must respect Swan's spending limits, though there is no limit to the amount you can add to these cards.

## Statuses {#statuses}

Card statuses **depend on the card format**.
Refer to the corresponding sections for [virtual](./virtual/index.mdx#statuses), [physical](./physical/index.mdx#statuses), and [digital](./digital/index.mdx#statuses) cards.

## Guides {#guides}

- [Issue cards](./overview/guide-issue.mdx)
- [Update card settings](./overview/guide-update.mdx)

Commit message:

DOC-610 replace card holder with cardholder (#157)

docs/topics/cards/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Cards overview
---

# Cards

## Overview {#overview}

import CardsOverview from '../partials/_cards-overview.mdx';

<CardsOverview />

:::tip card payments
Refer to the [card payments section](../payments/cards/index.mdx) for information about paying with your Swan cards.
:::

## Security and consent

To keep the cards you supply secure, all card-related mutations that initiate a sensitive action require consent.
Review the list of all [sensitive operations that require consent](../users/consent/index.mdx#sensitive) with Swan.

## Card formats {#formats}

import VirtualCardsDefinition from '../definitions/_cards-virtual.mdx';

import PhysicalCardsDefinition from '../definitions/_cards-physical.mdx';

import DigitalCardsDefinition from '../definitions/_cards-digital.mdx';

Swan offers three card formats.

| Card formats | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [Virtual](./virtual/index.mdx) | <VirtualCardsDefinition /> |
| [Physical](./physical/index.mdx) | <PhysicalCardsDefinition /> |
| [Digital](./digital/index.mdx) | <DigitalCardsDefinition /> |

### Creation order {#formats-order}

Swan is enthusiastically **virtual first** (similar to digital first), meaning the priority is on a **dematerialized user experience**.

![Image displaying connection between account membership, virtual card, then digital and physical cards](../../images/topics/cards/cards-types.png)

1. Create **account memberships** before creating cards.
1. Create **virtual cards** before physical cards.
1. Create **physical** and **digital cards**. Note that physical cards aren't required to create digital cards—you can add a virtual card directly into your favorite digital wallet.

Consider the example of Kafka Tamura:

![Image displaying possible timeline between creating a virtual card, adding a digital card, and deciding to order a standard physical card](../../images/topics/cards/cards-timeline.png)

1. **Instantly**: Kafka requests and receives a virtual card, usable right away for e-commerce transactions.
1. **Day 2**: Kafka adds his virtual card to Apple Pay, digitizing the card. He uses it to make contactless payments.
1. **Day 4**: Kafka decides to add the virtual card to his Apple watch as well.
1. **Day 7**: Finally, Kafka decides to order a physical card, just in case.

### API card types {#formats-api}

There are three options for the [API enum `CardType`](https://api-reference.swan.io/enums/card-type/#cardtypevirtualandphysical).
These differ from the card formats for your users.

- `Virtual`: only the default [virtual card](./virtual/index.mdx) is issued for the card contract.
- `VirtualAndPhysical`: both a [virtual](./virtual/index.mdx) and [physical](./physical/index.mdx) card are issued for the card contract.
- `SingleUseVirtual`: the card is a [single-use virtual card](./virtual/index.mdx#suv).

## Cards and account memberships {#cards-account-memberships}

No matter how many members are attached to an account—1, 50, or 500—you can issue cards to each member.
Every member has access to the same pot of money.
Any payments made with the card are debited from the account the member belongs to.

Thus, an account membership must be created *before* adding a card for an account member.

Account members can also add cards for themselves or other account members, determined by their [membership permissions](../accounts/memberships/index.mdx#permissions-cards).

### Multiple memberships, multiple cards {#cards-account-memberships-example-multiple}

![Image displaying connection between account holder, account, multiple account memberships, and multiple cards](../../images/topics/cards/cards-flow-multiple.png)

1. MyBrand is a verified account holder with a company account.
1. As an account holder, MyBrand has one account with money in it.
1. Attached to the account are three account members: Rae, Mika, and Sasha.
    1. Each member is identified by their email address.
    1. They all have different permissions.
1. Only two members, Rae and Mika, have cards associated with their account membership. Any money spent with these cards is taken from the MyBrand company account.

### One membership, one card {#cards-account-memberships-example-one}

![Image displaying connection between account holder, account, one account membership, and one card](../../images/topics/cards/cards-flow-single.png)

1. Dillon is a verified account holder with an individual account.
1. As an account holder, Dillon has one account with money in it.
1. Dillon is the only account member, identified by her email address. She has membership and card permissions automatically.
1. Dillon also has a card associated with her account membership.

## Card language {#language}

Your card's language (the language that appears on payment terminals, for example) is usually the same as the language chosen for the Swan account.

For Swan's **no-code** and **open source** Web Banking interface, the card language is determined by the default language of the browser where the card is created.

When using the **API**, the default language is the [account language](../accounts/index.mdx#language).
You can update the default language by calling the `bindAccountMembership` mutation and adding `accept-language` to the HTTP header.
This allows the users to choose their card language.

## Card product {#card-product}

import CardProductExplanation from './partials/_card-product.mdx';

<CardProductExplanation />

Learn more about **designing** your card products in the [card design section](./design/index.mdx).

:::info Printing hub
The [printing hub](./physical/index.mdx#hubs), where **physical cards are printed then shipped** to your cardholders, is defined in the card product ID.
You must have one dedicated card product per hub, though the designs can be identical.
:::

## Settings {#settings}

Use **settings to manage your card product** and all virtual, physical, and digital cards associated with it.

| Setting | Explanation | Update with |
| --- | --- | :---: |
| Name | You can name the card product for easy reference from your Dashboard. | Dashboard |
| Allow physical cards | Decide whether physical cards are allowed to be issued for this card product. | Dashboard |
| Suspend | Suspend this card product. Your users won't be able to add new cards with this card product. You'll need to contact Swan Support to reactivate the card product. | Dashboard |
| `cardContractExpiryDate` | Date you'd like the card to expire.<br /><br />Leave it empty if you don't want to set an expiration date, in which case, cards are renewed automatically every three years. | API |
| `international` | Allow or disable payments outside of the account holder's country. | API |
| `withdrawal` | Allow or disable cash withdrawals, such as at ATMs. | API |
| `nonMainCurrencyTransactions` | Allow or disable transactions outside of the card's currency. | API |
| `eCommerce` | Allow or disable transactions on eCommerce sites or for online transactions. | API |
| `spendingLimit` | Fixed by the account holder or qualifying account member, within the limits set by Swan. | API |

### International {#international}

If `international` is disabled, payments can only be made in the account holder's country. They can still pay using other currencies. For example, a cardholder in France can only make payments in France, but in euros as well as other currencies.

### Non-main currency transactions {#currency}

If `nonMainCurrencyTransactions` is disabled, payments can be made in other countries, but not using other currencies. For example, a cardholder in France can make payments in euros in the United Kingdom, but not in the GBP (Pound Sterling).

### Manage settings {#dashboard}

Manage card settings on your **Dashboard** > **Settings** > **Cards**.
You can (1) manage existing card products that are already validated, or (2) create a new standard card product.

![Screenshot of the Dashboard cards page with callouts on an existing card and create new option](../../images/topics/cards/cards-dashboard-settings.png)

## Spending limits {#limits}

A **spending limit** is the **maximum amount** a cardholder can spend within a certain **rolling period**.
Spending limits are imposed for several reasons.

1. Companies impose spending limits to reduce fraud risk.
1. Individual cardholders and companies might impose spending limits over a rolling period to protect their funds when issuing cards to other people.
    - A company might impose a 100€ spending limits over 7 days rolling for travel expenses.
    - A parent might give a card to their child, imposing a 50€ spending limit to protect their own money.
1. Financial institutions (like Swan) impose spending limits to protect themselves from liability.

:::info Rolling spending limit
A rolling period doesn't depend on a determined date, day of the week, or time.
Instead, rolling spending limits consider the amount spent over period of time.
At Swan, some types of accounts can impose rolling limits of 30 days, 7 days, and 24 hours.
:::

### Limits imposed by Swan {#limits-swan}

All spending limits are for a period of **30 days rolling**.

Note that **partners** (you) can define spending limits for all card types, while **account holders** can lower spending limits when creating cards.

| Transaction type | Impacts | Amount |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Card payment | Company **cardholder** | 10,000€ per card |
| Card payment | Individual **cardholder** | 5,000€ per card |
| ATM withdrawal | Company **account** holder | 3,000€ total |
| ATM withdrawal | Individual **account** holder | 1,500€ total |

Consider the following examples:

- Company cardholder card transaction:
    - One of your **company cardholders** has five company cards.
    - They can spend a maximum of 50,000€ between the 5 cards during a 30-day period.
    - Expenses for a single card can't exceed 10,000€.
- Individual account holder ATM withdrawal:
    - An **individual account holder** has two individual cards.
    - They can withdrawal a maximum of 1,500€ total between the 2 cards during a 30-day period.
    - They **can't withdrawal** a total of 3,000€—the maximum is per account holder.
    - The 1,500€ also counts toward their **card** transaction maximum of 5,000€ per card.

:::caution Changing spending limits
If you feel your use case requires an increased spending limit, create a ticket from your Swan Dashboard.
Swan will evaluate your need and increase the limit if approved.

Note that you can set a lower monthly `spendingLimit` by [updating the card](./overview/guide-update.mdx), but you can't set any type of additional limit for ATM withdrawals.
:::

### Limits imposed by account holders {#limits-account-holders}

Account holder spending limits **can't exceed** Swan spending limits.
If a spending limit is set that exceeds Swan's spending limits, transactions are rejected.

Companies and individual account holders can impose spending limits over three possible periods:

- 24 hours rolling (`Daily`)
- 7 days rolling (`Weekly`)
- 30 days rolling (`Monthly`)

### Cards with a lifetime limit {#limits-lifetime}

Cards with a lifetime limit allow companies and individual account holders to provide a card with a limited lifetime spending amount (`spendingLimit=Always`).
After the amount is spent, the card is no longer valid and can't be recharged.

Limited forever cards still must respect Swan's spending limits, though there is no limit to the amount you can add to these cards.

## Statuses {#statuses}

Card statuses **depend on the card format**.
Refer to the corresponding sections for [virtual](./virtual/index.mdx#statuses), [physical](./physical/index.mdx#statuses), and [digital](./digital/index.mdx#statuses) cards.

## Guides {#guides}

- [Issue cards](./overview/guide-issue.mdx)
- [Update card settings](./overview/guide-update.mdx)
