docs/topics/accounts/memberships/partials/_add-member-bind.mdx, before:

Bind the invited account member to their account membership.

1. Ask the invited account member to log into Swan. They'll be asked to create a passcode.
1. With the invited account member's [user access token](../../../../developers/using-api/authentication/index.mdx#tokens-user), call the `BindAccountMembership` mutation.
1. Add the `accountMembershipId` for the invited account member.
1. Add as much information to the payload as you need. Consider including several rejections, including the unions for a binding error (line 15), consent status (line 29), and if the member is already bound (line 42).
1. If the information provided by the invited account member matches what you provided, the account member's membership status changes to `Enabled` and they can start using the account according to their permissions.

:::caution Binding error
If the API returns a [user binding error](../index.mdx#binding-errors), please [**follow the guide**](../guide-update.mdx#guide-fix) to fix them.
:::

🔎 [Open the mutation in API Explorer](https://explorer.swan.io?query=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%3D&tab=api)

```graphql {3} showLineNumbers
mutation BindMember {
  bindAccountMembership(
    input: { accountMembershipId: "$YOUR_MEMBERSHIP_ID" }
  ) {
    ... on BindAccountMembershipSuccessPayload {
      __typename
      accountMembership {
        id
      }
    }
    ... on BadAccountStatusRejection {
      id
    }
    ... on AccountMembershipNotFoundRejection {
      id
    }
    ... on AccountMembershipNotReadyToBeBoundRejection {
      id
    }
    ... on IdentityAlreadyBindToAccountMembershipRejection {
      __typename
    }
    ... on RestrictedToUserRejection {
      __typename
    }
    ... on ValidationRejection {
      __typename
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="Payload" {} showLineNumbers
{
  "data": {
    "bindAccountMembership": {
      "__typename": "BindAccountMembershipSuccessPayload",
      "accountMembership": {
        "id": "$YOUR_MEMBERSHIP_ID"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

DOC-555 Add account membership language (#141)

docs/topics/accounts/memberships/partials/_add-member-bind.mdx, after:

Bind the invited account member to their account membership.

1. Ask the invited account member to log into Swan. They'll be asked to create a passcode.
1. With the invited account member's [user access token](../../../../developers/using-api/authentication/index.mdx#tokens-user), call the `BindAccountMembership` mutation.
1. Add the `accountMembershipId` for the invited account member.
1. Add as much information to the payload as you need. Consider including several rejections, including the unions for a binding error (line 15), consent status (line 29), and if the member is already bound (line 42).
1. If the information provided by the invited account member matches what you provided, the account member's membership status changes to `Enabled` and they can start using the account according to their permissions.

:::info Update membership language
You can update the [account membership language](../index.mdx#language) when binding the account member by including it in the `accept-language` header.
However, this isn't the recommended method.
It's best to choose the language when adding the membership (step 1 of this page), or to [update the membership](../guide-update.mdx).
:::

:::caution Binding error
If the API returns a [user binding error](../index.mdx#binding-errors), please [**follow the guide**](../guide-update.mdx#guide-fix) to fix it.
:::

🔎 [Open the mutation in API Explorer](https://explorer.swan.io?query=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%3D&tab=api)

```graphql {3} showLineNumbers
mutation BindMember {
  bindAccountMembership(
    input: { accountMembershipId: "$YOUR_MEMBERSHIP_ID" }
  ) {
    ... on BindAccountMembershipSuccessPayload {
      __typename
      accountMembership {
        id
      }
    }
    ... on BadAccountStatusRejection {
      id
    }
    ... on AccountMembershipNotFoundRejection {
      id
    }
    ... on AccountMembershipNotReadyToBeBoundRejection {
      id
    }
    ... on IdentityAlreadyBindToAccountMembershipRejection {
      __typename
    }
    ... on RestrictedToUserRejection {
      __typename
    }
    ... on ValidationRejection {
      __typename
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="Payload" {} showLineNumbers
{
  "data": {
    "bindAccountMembership": {
      "__typename": "BindAccountMembershipSuccessPayload",
      "accountMembership": {
        "id": "$YOUR_MEMBERSHIP_ID"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
