docs/topics/merchants/checks/index.mdx, before:

---
title: French checks for merchants
---

# French checks for merchants

:::caution beta
French checks are currently in private beta.
:::

Merchants can accept payments using French checks if the debtor's bank is located in France.

## About French checks for merchants {#about}

While paper checks are not the most convenient or secure payment method, they are still a valid way to exchange money.
Some users prefer checks, and merchants can accept French checks if they activate this payment method for accepting payments.

There isn't a Swan user interface for accepting checks.
This feature is only available using the API.

## Required API fields {#fields}

When declaring checks with the API, there are five mandatory API fields:

1. `amount`: monetary amount of the check (can't exceed 10 000€).
1. `currency`: `EUR` (only euros are supported).
1. `CMC7` (Caractères Magnétiques Codés à 7 bâtonnets): 31-digit code composed of 3 series of numbers.
    - Series 1: check number; 7 digits
    - Series 2: interbank codes; 12 digits
    - Series 3: account number; 12 digits
1. `rlmcKey` (Recomposition de la Ligne Magnétique du Chèque): 2-digit code surrounded by chevrons `< >` or parentheses `( )` calculated based on the CMC7.
1. `merchantProfileId`: your developers should enter the merchant's profile ID number.

On the **back of the check**, the merchant must write their Swan account number as well as provide their signature.

## Rolling reserve {#rolling-reserve}

import RollingReserve from '../partials/_rolling-reserve.mdx';

<RollingReserve />

| Payment method | Rolling reserve | Default amount |
| --- | --- | --- |
| French checks | ✓ **Yes** | 100% over 10 business days |

## Settlement date and booked time {#settlement}

Checks received by the check provider by **09:00 CET/CEST** should be processed the same day.

import DayTimeStandard from '../../partials/_day-time.mdx';

<DayTimeStandard />

## R-transactions {#r-transactions}

### Rejected {#r-transactions-rejected}

Checks can be rejected by Swan's check provider and returned to the merchant by mail.

A check transaction might be rejected for the following reasons.

| Rejection reason | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `AmountMismatch` | Amount on the check and amount declared through the API don't match |
| `BeneficiaryMissingOrIncorrect` | Merchant's name is missing or incorrect |
| `CheckReceivedLate` | Check was received by Swan's check provider more than 30 days after the check was declared, or if Swan's check provider received a canceled check |
| `DateMissing` | There's no date on the check |
| `DateInvalid` | Date on the check is in the future or isn't valid |
| `DebtorNameMissing` | Debtor's name (merchant's customer) must appear on the check |
| `EndorsementMissing` | Merchant didn't sign the back of the check or provide their Swan account number |
| `InvalidOrMissingAmount` | No amount is written on the check, the format shows an invalid amount, or the amount is shared in the wrong format (numbers instead of letters) |
| `SignatureMissing` | Signature is missing, or there was a problem with the signature |
| `SuspiciousCheck` | Suspicion of fraud |

Merchants can **fix and resend rejected checks**.
To do this, the merchant should create a new `checkIn` transaction before sending the check to Swan's provider.
If they send the check without creating the new `checkIn` transaction, the check remains rejected and will be returned to the merchant again.

Additionally, all checks not sent to Swan's check provider within 30 days of being declared will be automatically `Rejected`.

### Returned {#r-transactions-returned}

Checks can be returned up to 11 business days after the transaction is `Booked`, and this window can be extended to 90 calendar days based on the reason for return.

A check transaction might be returned for the following reasons (this list is not exhaustive):

- Insufficient funds
- Account closed
- Loss or theft

By the time a check is returned, the merchant's account has already be credited.
Therefore, when Swan is notified that a `Booked` check has gone unpaid, a `checkInReturn` transaction is created automatically.

### Canceled {#r-transactions-canceled}

Creditors can cancel a received check with the `Upcoming` status.
In this case, the check status switches automatically to `Canceled`.
This transaction won't impact the account's available balance.

## Guides {#guides}

- [**Step-by-step**: Accept payments with French checks](./guide-checks.mdx)
- [Request French checks payment method](./guide-request.mdx)
- [Initiate a French check transaction](./guide-initiate.mdx)
- [Sandbox](./sandbox.mdx)

Commit message:

Add message about getting rejection reason with returned check (#33)
Co-authored-by: clywyk <clywyk@gmail.com>

docs/topics/merchants/checks/index.mdx, after:

---
title: French checks for merchants
---

# French checks for merchants

:::caution beta
French checks are currently in private beta.
:::

Merchants can accept payments using French checks if the debtor's bank is located in France.

## About French checks for merchants {#about}

While paper checks are not the most convenient or secure payment method, they are still a valid way to exchange money.
Some users prefer checks, and merchants can accept French checks if they activate this payment method for accepting payments.

There isn't a Swan user interface for accepting checks.
This feature is only available using the API.

## Required API fields {#fields}

When declaring checks with the API, there are five mandatory API fields:

1. `amount`: monetary amount of the check (can't exceed 10 000€).
1. `currency`: `EUR` (only euros are supported).
1. `CMC7` (Caractères Magnétiques Codés à 7 bâtonnets): 31-digit code composed of 3 series of numbers.
    - Series 1: check number; 7 digits
    - Series 2: interbank codes; 12 digits
    - Series 3: account number; 12 digits
1. `rlmcKey` (Recomposition de la Ligne Magnétique du Chèque): 2-digit code surrounded by chevrons `< >` or parentheses `( )` calculated based on the CMC7.
1. `merchantProfileId`: your developers should enter the merchant's profile ID number.

On the **back of the check**, the merchant must write their Swan account number as well as provide their signature.

## Rolling reserve {#rolling-reserve}

import RollingReserve from '../partials/_rolling-reserve.mdx';

<RollingReserve />

| Payment method | Rolling reserve | Default amount |
| --- | --- | --- |
| French checks | ✓ **Yes** | 100% over 10 business days |

## Settlement date and booked time {#settlement}

Checks received by the check provider by **09:00 CET/CEST** should be processed the same day.

import DayTimeStandard from '../../partials/_day-time.mdx';

<DayTimeStandard />

## R-transactions {#r-transactions}

### Rejected {#r-transactions-rejected}

Checks can be rejected by Swan's check provider and **returned to the merchant by mail**.
They'll receive helpful information about why the check has been rejected, and then they can **fix and resend the rejected checks**.

**Before resending the rejected check**, the merchant should create a new `checkIn` transaction.
If they send the check without creating the new `checkIn` transaction, the check **remains rejected** and will be returned to the merchant again.

Additionally, all checks not sent to Swan's check provider within 30 days of being declared will be automatically `Rejected`.

A check transaction can be rejected for the following reasons:

| Rejection reason | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `AmountMismatch` | Amount on the check and amount declared through the API don't match |
| `BeneficiaryMissingOrIncorrect` | Merchant's name is missing or incorrect |
| `CheckReceivedLate` | Check was received by Swan's check provider more than 30 days after the check was declared, or if Swan's check provider received a canceled check |
| `DateMissing` | There's no date on the check |
| `DateInvalid` | Date on the check is in the future or isn't valid |
| `DebtorNameMissing` | Debtor's name (merchant's customer) must appear on the check |
| `EndorsementMissing` | Merchant didn't sign the back of the check or provide their Swan account number |
| `InvalidOrMissingAmount` | No amount is written on the check, the format shows an invalid amount, or the amount is shared in the wrong format (numbers instead of letters) |
| `SignatureMissing` | Signature is missing, or there was a problem with the signature |
| `SuspiciousCheck` | Suspicion of fraud |

### Returned {#r-transactions-returned}

Checks can be returned up to 11 business days after the transaction is `Booked`, and this window can be extended to 90 calendar days based on the reason for return.

A check transaction might be returned for the following reasons (this list is not exhaustive):

- Insufficient funds
- Account closed
- Loss or theft

By the time a check is returned, the merchant's account has already be credited.
Therefore, when Swan is notified that a `Booked` check has gone unpaid, a `checkInReturn` transaction is created automatically.

### Canceled {#r-transactions-canceled}

Creditors can cancel a received check with the `Upcoming` status.
In this case, the check status switches automatically to `Canceled`.
This transaction won't impact the account's available balance.

## Guides {#guides}

- [**Step-by-step**: Accept payments with French checks](./guide-checks.mdx)
- [Request French checks payment method](./guide-request.mdx)
- [Initiate a French check transaction](./guide-initiate.mdx)
- [Sandbox](./sandbox.mdx)
