docs/preview/in-person/cards/index.mdx, before:

---
title: In-person cards
---

# In-person cards

For many businesses, accepting card payments in person is not just a convenience; it's a must-have.
From brick-and-mortar shops to health professionals, home care service providers, taxi drivers, and contractors, many professionals need to accept card payments on the go or on their own premises.

With Swan's API, you can let merchants turn their smartphones into a card terminal and accept payments through a simple terminal app in just a few taps.

:::info Merchants only
This section only applies to **merchants** accepting card payments.
Visit the [card payments section](../../../topics/payments/cards/index.mdx) for information about payments made with cards *from* a Swan account.
:::

## Merchant card payments {#merchant-card-payments}

Merchant card payments include **one or more transactions**.
For example, one payment might include a capture transaction and a refund transaction, for a total of two transactions.

These transactions are grouped together in the **merchant payment object**.
Swan suggests using the merchant payment object in your integration. This helps merchants match orders, invoices, and sales to the right payment.```
This makes it easier to track payments and helps reconcile issues more efficiently.

## Card transaction types {#transaction-types}

There are **four transaction types** for in-person merchant card payments.

:::info Statuses specific to in-person card payments
These statuses are specific to in-person card payments.
Other payment methods might behave differently.
:::

Authorizations aren't included in a transaction type.
Instead, they're represented at the payment level, visible through the payment object status `Authorized` and payment object balance `totalAuthorized`.

| Transaction type | Explanation | Possible statuses |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `CardInCredit` | Captured payment that will eventually get settled through a separate credit transfer. | `Upcoming`, `Settled` |
| `CardInCreditReversal` | Refunded payment that will eventually get settled through a separate credit transfer. | `Upcoming`, `Settled` |
| `CardInCreditChargeback` | Disputed payment that will eventually get settled through a separate credit transfer. | `Upcoming`, `Settled` |
| `CardInCreditChargebackReversal` | Disputed payment for which the dispute is overturned, that will eventually get settled through a separate credit transfer. | `Upcoming`, `Settled` |

### Settled status {#settled-status}

The `Settled` status indicates that a credit transfer was `Booked` on the account to settle the merchant.
Individual card transactions don't affect the balance; the `Settled` status is final. Instead, the credit transfer affects the `Booked` balance directly.

Every `Settled` transaction has a `settlementTransactionId` field to identify the credit transfer affecting the balance.
Additionally, each credit transfer received to settle in-person card transactions includes the list of settled transactions.

{/* TODO: Add mermaid diagram showing payment object status lifecycle (ref: SDD page for pattern) */}

## Payment object statuses {#payment-statuses}

The merchant payment object has **distinct statuses** to follow a payment's lifecycle.

| Payment object status | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `Initiated` | The payment was created on the terminal app and is ready to be taken. |
| `Authorized` | Authorization for the payment was received, but the funds aren't captured yet. The funds are guaranteed for the merchant. |
| `Captured` | Authorized payments for which the funds have moved out of the customer's account. This can be a final status if the customer doesn't dispute the payment or request a refund. |
| `Rejected` | Authorization denied by the issuer or by Swan. |
| `Canceled` | Card payment was canceled, authorization voided, and the funds can't be captured. |
| `Refunded` | Payments reversed by the merchant for some or all of the amount. |
| `Disputed` | Customer disputed the payment with their bank for some or all of the amount. |

## Payment object balances {#payment-balances}

{/* TODO: Extract this table into a shared partial (identical to online cards payment object balances) */}

The merchant payment object has **distinct balances** to follow a payment's lifecycle.
Use these balances to understand what actions have been done on a payment, and what actions can be taken (such as canceling or refunding a payment).

| Payment object balance | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `totalAuthorized` | The total authorized amount for this merchant payment. |
| `availableToCancel` | The authorized amount that can be released. Refer to this balance to verify whether the payment can be canceled. Cancellations must occur before the amount is captured. |
| `totalCanceled` | The total amount canceled for this merchant payment. |
| `availableToCapture` | The amount available for merchants to capture if the capture isn't automatic. |
| `totalCaptured` | The amount captured by the merchant. When the capture for card payments is automatic, `totalCaptured` is always equal to `totalAuthorized`. |
| `availableToRefund` | The amount the merchant can refund. Use this balance to know if a payment is eligible for a refund. |
| `totalRefunded` | The total amount refunded for this merchant payment. |
| `totalDisputed` | The total amount of this merchant payment disputed by the customer. |

## Rolling reserve {#rolling-reserve}

In-person card payments are **not subject to a rolling reserve** by default.
This could change as merchants start processing if Swan's monitoring systems detect suspicious patterns and activities.

## Payment amount limit {#payment-limit}

In-person card payments are **not subject to a payment amount limit** by default.
This could change as merchants start processing if Swan's monitoring systems detect suspicious patterns and activities.

## Settlement process {#settlement}

For in-person card payments, the settlement is a credit transfer.

1. When the merchant payment is created, underlying transactions are created as `Upcoming`.
1. When the settlement arrives as a credit transfer, the transactions are updated to `Settled`.
1. The credit transfer is immediately `Booked`. It affects the balance and makes the corresponding funds available. Card transactions don't affect any of the account balances. 
1. Transactions captured on a given day are `Settled` within **one business day** later. No rolling reserve applies to the settlement credit transfer.

import DayTime from '../../../topics/partials/_day-time.mdx';

<DayTime />

## Refunds {#refunds}

import InPersonCardRefundLimitation from '../partials/_in-person-card-refund-limitation.mdx';

<InPersonCardRefundLimitation />

## R-transactions {#r-transactions}

### Rejected {#rejected}

Card payments can be rejected for the following reasons:

{/* TODO: Insert table with list of rejection reasons and explanations when available from PM */}

:::note Rejection reasons
Rejection reasons table coming soon.
:::

## Chargebacks and disputes {#chargebacks}

Cardholders might request a chargeback, which opens a dispute.
Merchants can automatically view the dispute; the merchant payment object status and balances are updated to reflect the dispute.
However, it's not possible to act on these disputes directly using Swan's APIs or dashboards.

To respond to disputes, ask your merchant to [submit a request](https://supportform.swan.io/) to the Swan Support team.

## Guides {#guides}

{/* TODO: Uncomment when guide pages are created
- [Accept in-person payments with cards](./guide-accept.mdx)
- [Request in-person card payment method](./guide-request-method.mdx)
- [Create in-person card payments](./guide-create-payments.mdx)
- [Sandbox](./sandbox.mdx)
*/}

:::note Guides coming soon
Step-by-step guides for accepting in-person card payments are in development.
:::

Commit message:

DOC-1579/ttp-step-2-guide-pages

docs/preview/in-person/cards/index.mdx, after:

---
title: In-person cards
---

# In-person cards

For many businesses, accepting card payments in person is not just a convenience; it's a must-have.
From brick-and-mortar shops to health professionals, home care service providers, taxi drivers, and contractors, many professionals need to accept card payments on the go or on their own premises.

With Swan's API, you can let merchants turn their smartphones into a card terminal and accept payments through a simple terminal app in just a few taps.

:::info Merchants only
This section only applies to **merchants** accepting card payments.
Visit the [card payments section](../../../topics/payments/cards/index.mdx) for information about payments made with cards *from* a Swan account.
:::

## Merchant card payments {#merchant-card-payments}

Merchant card payments include **one or more transactions**.
For example, one payment might include a capture transaction and a refund transaction, for a total of two transactions.

These transactions are grouped together in the **merchant payment object**.
Swan suggests using the merchant payment object in your integration. This helps merchants match orders, invoices, and sales to the right payment.
This makes it easier to track payments and helps reconcile issues more efficiently.

## Card transaction types {#transaction-types}

There are **four transaction types** for in-person merchant card payments.

:::info Statuses specific to in-person card payments
These statuses are specific to in-person card payments.
Other payment methods might behave differently.
:::

Authorizations aren't included in a transaction type.
Instead, they're represented at the payment level, visible through the payment object status `Authorized` and payment object balance `totalAuthorized`.

| Transaction type | Explanation | Possible statuses |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `CardInCredit` | Captured payment that will eventually get settled through a separate credit transfer. | `Upcoming`, `Settled` |
| `CardInCreditReversal` | Refunded payment that will eventually get settled through a separate credit transfer. | `Upcoming`, `Settled` |
| `CardInCreditChargeback` | Disputed payment that will eventually get settled through a separate credit transfer. | `Upcoming`, `Settled` |
| `CardInCreditChargebackReversal` | Disputed payment for which the dispute is overturned, that will eventually get settled through a separate credit transfer. | `Upcoming`, `Settled` |

### Settled status {#settled-status}

The `Settled` status indicates that a credit transfer was `Booked` on the account to settle the merchant.
Individual card transactions don't affect the balance; the `Settled` status is final. Instead, the credit transfer affects the `Booked` balance directly.

Every `Settled` transaction has a `settlementTransactionId` field to identify the credit transfer affecting the balance.
Additionally, each credit transfer received to settle in-person card transactions includes the list of settled transactions.

{/* TODO: Add mermaid diagram showing payment object status lifecycle (ref: SDD page for pattern) */}

## Payment object statuses {#payment-statuses}

The merchant payment object has **distinct statuses** to follow a payment's lifecycle.

| Payment object status | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `Initiated` | The payment was created on the terminal app and is ready to be taken. |
| `Authorized` | Authorization for the payment was received, but the funds aren't captured yet. The funds are guaranteed for the merchant. |
| `Captured` | Authorized payments for which the funds have moved out of the customer's account. This can be a final status if the customer doesn't dispute the payment or request a refund. |
| `Rejected` | Authorization denied by the issuer or by Swan. |
| `Canceled` | Card payment was canceled, authorization voided, and the funds can't be captured. |
| `Refunded` | Payments reversed by the merchant for some or all of the amount. |
| `Disputed` | Customer disputed the payment with their bank for some or all of the amount. |

## Payment object balances {#payment-balances}

{/* TODO: Extract this table into a shared partial (identical to online cards payment object balances) */}

The merchant payment object has **distinct balances** to follow a payment's lifecycle.
Use these balances to understand what actions have been done on a payment, and what actions can be taken (such as canceling or refunding a payment).

| Payment object balance | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `totalAuthorized` | The total authorized amount for this merchant payment. |
| `availableToCancel` | The authorized amount that can be released. Refer to this balance to verify whether the payment can be canceled. Cancellations must occur before the amount is captured. |
| `totalCanceled` | The total amount canceled for this merchant payment. |
| `availableToCapture` | The amount available for merchants to capture if the capture isn't automatic. |
| `totalCaptured` | The amount captured by the merchant. When the capture for card payments is automatic, `totalCaptured` is always equal to `totalAuthorized`. |
| `availableToRefund` | The amount the merchant can refund. Use this balance to know if a payment is eligible for a refund. |
| `totalRefunded` | The total amount refunded for this merchant payment. |
| `totalDisputed` | The total amount of this merchant payment disputed by the customer. |

## Rolling reserve {#rolling-reserve}

In-person card payments are **not subject to a rolling reserve** by default.
This could change as merchants start processing if Swan's monitoring systems detect suspicious patterns and activities.

## Payment amount limit {#payment-limit}

In-person card payments are **not subject to a payment amount limit** by default.
This could change as merchants start processing if Swan's monitoring systems detect suspicious patterns and activities.

## Settlement process {#settlement}

For in-person card payments, the settlement is a credit transfer.

1. When the merchant payment is created, underlying transactions are created as `Upcoming`.
1. When the settlement arrives as a credit transfer, the transactions are updated to `Settled`.
1. The credit transfer is immediately `Booked`. It affects the balance and makes the corresponding funds available. Card transactions don't affect any of the account balances. 
1. Transactions captured on a given day are `Settled` within **one business day** later. No rolling reserve applies to the settlement credit transfer.

import DayTime from '../../../topics/partials/_day-time.mdx';

<DayTime />

## Refunds {#refunds}

import InPersonCardRefundLimitation from '../partials/_in-person-card-refund-limitation.mdx';

<InPersonCardRefundLimitation />

## R-transactions {#r-transactions}

### Rejected {#rejected}

Card payments can be rejected for the following reasons:

| Status reason | Explanation | Next steps |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `CardNotSupported` | The card doesn't support this type of purchase. | Ask the customer to use a different card. |
| `RejectedByCardAcquirer` | The payment was declined by the acquirer due to fraud suspicion or risk rules. | Present as a generic decline. Don't share specific details with the customer. |
| `RejectedByCardIssuer` | The card was declined by the issuer. The card might be invalid, lost, stolen, or restricted. | Ask the customer to contact their card issuer. |
| `SoftDecline3dsRequired` | The transaction requires 3D Secure authentication. | Retry the payment with authentication. If already authenticated, ask the customer to contact their card issuer. |
| `SoftDeclineCardDetailsInvalid` | The card number or expiration date is incorrect. | Ask the customer to retry with the correct card details. |
| `SoftDeclineCardExpired` | The card has expired. | Ask the customer to use a different card. |
| `SoftDeclineCvcInvalid` | The CVC is incorrect. | Ask the customer to retry with the correct CVC. |
| `SoftDeclineInsufficientFunds` | The card has insufficient funds. | Ask the customer to use a different payment method. |
| `SoftDeclineInvalidPinAttemptsExceeded` | Too many incorrect PIN attempts. | Ask the customer to use a different card or payment method. |
| `SoftDeclinePinInvalid` | The PIN entered is incorrect. | Ask the customer to retry with the correct PIN. |
| `SoftDeclinePinRequired` | A PIN is required for this card. | Ask the customer to insert their card and enter their PIN. |
| `SoftDeclineRejectedByCardIssuer` | The card was declined by the issuer for an unspecified reason. Possible causes include velocity limits or issuer unavailability. | Retry the payment. If still declined, ask the customer to contact their card issuer. |
| `SoftDeclineSwanTechnicalErrorOccurred` | A technical error occurred during processing. Possible causes include an incorrect address, invalid amount, or processing failure. | Retry the payment. If it still fails, try again later. |
| `SwanTechnicalErrorOccurred` | A technical error occurred on Swan's side. | Retry the payment. If the issue persists, contact Swan Support. |

## Chargebacks and disputes {#chargebacks}

Cardholders might request a chargeback, which opens a dispute.
Merchants can automatically view the dispute; the merchant payment object status and balances are updated to reflect the dispute.
However, it's not possible to act on these disputes directly using Swan's APIs or dashboards.

To respond to disputes, ask your merchant to [submit a request](https://supportform.swan.io/) to the Swan Support team.

## Guides {#guides}

- [Accept in-person payments with cards](./guide-accept.mdx)
- [Request in-person card payment method](./guide-request-method.mdx)
- [Create in-person card payments](./guide-create-payments.mdx)

:::note Sandbox coming soon
Testing scenarios for in-person card payments are in development.
:::
