docs/developers/using-api/errors-rejections.mdx, before:

---
title: Errors and rejections
---

# Errors and rejections

Swan added the `Rejection` type into the API due to how GraphQL chose to handle errors.

## GraphQL errors {#errors-graphql}

In GraphQL, all the errors, or rather non-nominal responses, go through the `errors` field, which contains a list of non-typed objects.
Because errors aren't [strongly typed](../index.mdx#graphql-types) like the rest of the GraphQL schema, there's **no guaranteed format or structure** to error responses.

This is by design and part of [GraphQL's specifications](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-spec/blob/main/spec/Section%207%20--%20Response.md).

:::caution Swan's responsibility
It's Swan's responsibility as a financial institution and a business to make sure responses to API calls that request modifications (mutations) can be thoroughly reviewed and understood by all API consumers.

As a result, Swan implemented the `Rejection` type in the API instead of relying on GraphQL's default, un-typed `errors` field to provide you with as much information as possible about failed mutations.
:::

### Swan API errors {#errors-swan}

Adding `Rejections` doesn't mean the `error` fields disappeared from Swan's API.

`Rejections` are implemented for all mutations with anticipated errors caused by business rules.
For unexpected errors, and all query errors, the API returns a classic GraphQL `error` field.

## Rejection object {#rejections}

A `Rejection` is a GraphQL type returned by mutations—and only mutations—from the Swan API when a request is **rejected due to a business rule**.

### Object structure {#rejections-structure}

In the Swan [schema](../index.mdx#graphql-schema), a `Rejection` is an object containing a descriptive message.

```graphql title="Rejection structure" {2} showLineNumbers
interface Rejection {
  message: String!
}
```

Each business rule that can provoke a `Rejection` will have a type extending the `Rejection` interface.
For example, if you try to access a consent that doesn't exist, you receive a `Rejection` in return, described like this, which also includes the `consentId`:

```graphql title="Consent not found rejection" {2,3} showLineNumbers
type ConsentNotFoundRejection implements Rejection {
  message: String!
  consentId: String!
}
```

### Union: success or rejection {#rejections-union}

Therefore, all Swan mutations are either **successful** or **return a `Rejection`**.
Swan implemented this concept using a [GraphQL union](https://graphql.org/learn/schema/#union-types).

Consider the `cancelConsent` mutation:

```graphql title="Cancel consent" {5} showLineNumbers
type Mutation {
  cancelConsent(input: CancelConsentInput!): CancelConsentPayload!
}

union CancelConsentPayload = CancelConsentSuccessPayload | ConsentNotFoundRejection

type CancelConsentSuccessPayload {
  consent: Consent!
}
```
A canceled consent returns the `CancelConsentPayload`.
However, if the consent couldn't be found, the API returns the `ConsentNotFoundRejection`.

## Extract possible rejections {#rejections-extract}

In the Swan Banking Frontend open source project, there is a script to extract every object that implements a `Rejection`.
The script then compiles the list of objects in a `locales` file with all rejection keys (`rejection.{name}`).

You can download the [**`extractRejections` TypeScript file**](https://github.com/swan-io/lake/blob/main/scripts/graphql/extractRejections.ts) file from GitHub.

## Using rejections {#using-rejections}

You can add rejections to all mutation calls, and Swan encourages you to do so.
In fact, all API mutation examples included in the documentation feature rejections.

Continuing with the `cancelConsent` example, consider how Swan handles different `Rejection` cases.

While this example is basic, consider how helpful the additional information is in each rejection payload.

### No rejection added {#using-rejections-none}

The following code block illustrates a mutation fetching a consent, but only a success payload is added to the call (line 3), not a `Rejection`.

Note that the success payload looks good: the consent ID is returned as requested (line 17).

However, the rejection payload contains no information (lines 27).

```graphql title="No rejection added" {3,17,27} showLineNumbers
mutation NoRejection {
  cancelConsent(input: {consentId: "$YOUR_CONSENT_ID"}) {
    ... on CancelConsentSuccessPayload {
      consent {
        id
      }
    }
  }
}

# Success payload

{
  "data": {
    "cancelConsent": {
			"consent": {
				"id" : "$YOUR_CONSENT_ID"
      }
		}
  }
}

# Rejection payload

{
  "data": {
    "cancelConsent": {}
  }
}
```

### Add basic rejection {#using-rejections-basic}

Now, add a basic rejection to the same `cancelConsent` mutation.

The success payload still looks good (line 20).

This time, though, the API provides a reason in the rejection payload: the consent ID wasn't found (lines 31).

```graphql title="No rejection added" {8,20,31} showLineNumbers
mutation BasicRejection {
  cancelConsent(input: {consentId: "$YOUR_CONSENT_ID"}) {
    ... on CancelConsentSuccessPayload {
      consent {
        id
      }
    }
    ... on Rejection {
      message
    }
  }
}

# Success payload

{
  "data": {
    "cancelConsent": {
			"consent": {
				"id" : "$YOUR_CONSENT_ID"
      }
		}
  }
}

# Rejection payload

{
  "data": {
    "cancelConsent": {
      "message": "Consent with id '$YOUR_CONSENT_ID' was not found."
    }
  }
}
```

### Add detailed rejection {#using-rejections-detailed}

Add a detailed rejection to the same `cancelConsent` mutation (line 9).

Again, the success payload looks good (line 24).

Now, the API provides more information about why the mutation was rejected, including the consent ID you were looking for, the `__typename`, and that the consent ID wasn't found (lines 35-37).

```graphql title="No rejection added" {9,24,35-37} showLineNumbers
mutation MyMutation {
  cancelConsent(input: {consentId: "$YOUR_CONSENT_ID"}) {
    ... on CancelConsentSuccessPayload {
      consent {
        id
      }
    }
    ... on Rejection {
      ... on ConsentNotFoundRejection{
        __typename
        consentId
      }
      message
    }
  }
}

# Success payload

{
  "data": {
    "cancelConsent": {
			"consent": {
				"id" : "$YOUR_CONSENT_ID"
      }
		}
  }
}

# Rejection payload

{
  "data": {
    "cancelConsent": {
      "__typename": "ConsentNotFoundRejection",
      "consentId": "$YOUR_CONSENT_ID",
      "message": "Consent with id '$YOUR_CONSENT_ID' was not found."
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Pagination and rejections feedback from frontend devs

docs/developers/using-api/errors-rejections.mdx, after:

---
title: Errors and rejections
---

# Errors and rejections

Swan added the `Rejection` type into the API due to how GraphQL chose to handle errors.

## GraphQL errors {#errors-graphql}

In GraphQL, all the errors, or rather non-nominal responses, go through the `errors` field, which contains a list of non-typed objects.
Because errors aren't [strongly typed](../index.mdx#graphql-types) like the rest of the GraphQL schema, there's **no guaranteed format or structure** to error responses.

This is by design and part of [GraphQL's specifications](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-spec/blob/main/spec/Section%207%20--%20Response.md).

:::caution Swan's responsibility
It's Swan's responsibility as a financial institution and a business to make sure responses to API calls that request modifications (mutations) can be thoroughly reviewed and understood by all API consumers.

As a result, Swan implemented the `Rejection` type in the API instead of relying on GraphQL's default, un-typed `errors` field to provide you with as much information as possible about failed mutations.
:::

### Swan API errors {#errors-swan}

Adding `Rejections` doesn't mean the `error` fields disappeared from Swan's API.

`Rejections` are implemented for all mutations with anticipated errors caused by business rules.
For unexpected errors, and all query errors, the API returns a classic GraphQL `error` field.

## Rejection object {#rejections}

A `Rejection` is a GraphQL type returned by mutations—and only mutations—from the Swan API when a request is **rejected due to a business rule**.

### Object structure {#rejections-structure}

In the Swan [schema](../index.mdx#graphql-schema), a `Rejection` is an object containing a descriptive message.

```graphql title="Rejection structure" {2} showLineNumbers
interface Rejection {
  message: String!
}
```

Each business rule that can provoke a `Rejection` will have a type extending the `Rejection` interface.
For example, if you try to access a consent that doesn't exist, you receive a `Rejection` in return, described like this, which also includes the `consentId`:

```graphql title="Consent not found rejection" {2,3} showLineNumbers
type ConsentNotFoundRejection implements Rejection {
  message: String!
  consentId: String!
}
```

### Union: success or rejection {#rejections-union}

Therefore, all Swan mutations are either **successful** or **return a `Rejection`**.
Swan implemented this concept using a [GraphQL union](https://graphql.org/learn/schema/#union-types).

Consider the `cancelConsent` mutation:

```graphql title="Cancel consent" {5} showLineNumbers
type Mutation {
  cancelConsent(input: CancelConsentInput!): CancelConsentPayload!
}

union CancelConsentPayload = CancelConsentSuccessPayload | ConsentNotFoundRejection

type CancelConsentSuccessPayload {
  consent: Consent!
}
```
A canceled consent returns the `CancelConsentPayload`.
However, if the consent couldn't be found, the API returns the `ConsentNotFoundRejection`.

## Extract possible rejections {#rejections-extract}

In the Swan Banking Frontend open source project, there is a script to extract every object that implements a `Rejection`.
The script then compiles the list of objects in a `locales` file with all rejection keys (`rejection.{name}`).

You can download the [**`extractRejections` TypeScript file**](https://github.com/swan-io/lake/blob/main/scripts/graphql/extractRejections.ts) file from GitHub.

## Using rejections {#using-rejections}

You can add rejections to all mutation calls, and Swan encourages you to do so.
In fact, all API mutation examples included in the documentation feature rejections.

:::info bug
`Rejections` aren't available for a small subset of fields linked to a specific backend service.
Swan developers are working on fixing the issue.
:::

Continuing with the `cancelConsent` example, consider how Swan handles different `Rejection` cases.

While this example is basic, consider how helpful the additional information is in each rejection payload.

### No rejection added {#using-rejections-none}

The following code block illustrates a mutation fetching a consent, but only a success payload is added to the call (line 3), not a `Rejection`.

Note that the success payload looks good: the consent ID is returned as requested (line 17).

However, the rejection payload contains no information (lines 27).

```graphql title="No rejection added" {3,17,27} showLineNumbers
mutation NoRejection {
  cancelConsent(input: {consentId: "$YOUR_CONSENT_ID"}) {
    ... on CancelConsentSuccessPayload {
      consent {
        id
      }
    }
  }
}

# Success payload

{
  "data": {
    "cancelConsent": {
			"consent": {
				"id" : "$YOUR_CONSENT_ID"
      }
		}
  }
}

# Rejection payload

{
  "data": {
    "cancelConsent": {}
  }
}
```

### Add basic rejection {#using-rejections-basic}

Now, add a basic rejection to the same `cancelConsent` mutation.

The success payload still looks good (line 20).

This time, though, the API provides a reason in the rejection payload: the consent ID wasn't found (lines 31).

```graphql title="No rejection added" {8,20,31} showLineNumbers
mutation BasicRejection {
  cancelConsent(input: {consentId: "$YOUR_CONSENT_ID"}) {
    ... on CancelConsentSuccessPayload {
      consent {
        id
      }
    }
    ... on Rejection {
      message
    }
  }
}

# Success payload

{
  "data": {
    "cancelConsent": {
			"consent": {
				"id" : "$YOUR_CONSENT_ID"
      }
		}
  }
}

# Rejection payload

{
  "data": {
    "cancelConsent": {
      "message": "Consent with id '$YOUR_CONSENT_ID' was not found."
    }
  }
}
```

### Add detailed rejection {#using-rejections-detailed}

Add a detailed rejection to the same `cancelConsent` mutation (line 9).

Again, the success payload looks good (line 24).

Now, the API provides more information about why the mutation was rejected, including the consent ID you were looking for, the `__typename`, and that the consent ID wasn't found (lines 35-37).

```graphql title="No rejection added" {9,24,35-37} showLineNumbers
mutation MyMutation {
  cancelConsent(input: {consentId: "$YOUR_CONSENT_ID"}) {
    ... on CancelConsentSuccessPayload {
      consent {
        id
      }
    }
    ... on Rejection {
      ... on ConsentNotFoundRejection{
        __typename
        consentId
      }
      message
    }
  }
}

# Success payload

{
  "data": {
    "cancelConsent": {
			"consent": {
				"id" : "$YOUR_CONSENT_ID"
      }
		}
  }
}

# Rejection payload

{
  "data": {
    "cancelConsent": {
      "__typename": "ConsentNotFoundRejection",
      "consentId": "$YOUR_CONSENT_ID",
      "message": "Consent with id '$YOUR_CONSENT_ID' was not found."
    }
  }
}
```
