docs/developers/using-api/webhooks.mdx, before:

---
title: Webhooks
---

# Webhooks

import WebhooksDefinition from '../../topics/definitions/_webhooks.mdx';

<WebhooksDefinition />

## Overview {#overview}

You're aware of events you request or that your user's request directly from you.
Consider the [basic API flow](../index.mdx#overview) for reference.
However, **not all events are under your control**; some events are triggered by external parties.
When external events occur, resources are updated in Swan, but you aren't notified by default.

If you **subscribe to webhooks for these external events**, Swan initiates a request on your endpoint and you receive webhook notifications.
Requests to your endpoint **must be answered** with a 200 OK HTTP response.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
participant P as Partner (you)
participant S as Swan
participant E as External event
    E -->> S: Updates an API resource
    S ->> P: Sends request to your configured endpoints
    par        
        P ->> S: Returns 200 OK HTTP
        P ->> S: Calls query for resource
    end
    S ->> P: Returns resource
```

### Response time {#overview-response}

Webhooks operate with a near-real-time efficiency, typically delivering responses **within seconds** of the event.

It's worth clarifying that webhooks don't actively *respond* but autonomously send information to your system, potentially introducing delays of up to 10 minutes after the actual action occurs.

### Automatic retry {#overview-retry}

If Swan encounters an error during a webhook request, the request is retried every **30 seconds** and up to **7 times**.

If all retries fail, you can retry it manually by selecting **Retry** from your **Dashboard** > **Developers** > **Webhooks**.
You can also trigger the webhook manually at any time.

### Subscription limits {#subscription-limits}

In order to avoid overconsumption caused by too many subscriptions to the same webhook event, there's a limit on how many subscriptions you can enable per event.
Please consider unsubscribing if you have multiple subscriptions to the same event.

The following limits apply:

- **Sandbox**: 10 subscriptions per event
- **Live**: 5 subscriptions per event

:::warning Legacy subscriptions
All webhook subscriptions enabled before these limits were established remain intact.
However, you won't be able to add additional subscriptions for the same event.

For example, if you had 12 subscriptions to a Sandbox event:

- All 12 subscriptions remain active.
- To add a new subscription to that event, delete 3 existing subscriptions first.
:::

### Security {#overview-security}

Webhooks aren't the most secure communication method, and banking data can be sensitive.
Therefore, **Swan never uses webhooks to send sensitive information** that requires authentication to view.

If an event involves sensitive information, the webhook only includes a notification that an event occurred.
You need to use your Dashboard or the API to actually review the information.

:::note Swan's webhook IP addresses
If you have security restrictions in your infrastructure, you might need to add the following IPs to your allowlist for both Sandbox and Live environments.

- 52.210.172.90
- 52.51.125.72
- 54.194.47.212
:::

## Event handling {#event-handling}

Handling webhooks is important to make sure your integration's business logic works as expected.

### Delivery method {#event-handling-delivery}

Swan webhooks are designed following the `at-least once` delivery method.
Taking transactions as an example, the `at-least once` delivery means that for the same `eventId`, you might receive more than one notification.

Swan chose `at-least once` delivery deliberately over the `at-most once` delivery; it's better you receive the information multiple times instead of not at all, which can occur with `at-most once` in case of technical error.

### Notification content {#event-handling-info}

Webhook notifications contain the following information in a `POST` request:

```
{
  "eventType": "Transaction.Booked",
  "eventId": "$YOUR_EVENT_ID",
  "eventDate": "2021-08-18T09:35:46.673Z",
  "projectId": "$YOUR_PROJECT_ID",
  "resourceId": "$YOUR_RESOURCE_ID"
}
```

Note that `eventType` is the action performed on which resource type, `eventId` is a unique ID for this event, and  `resourceId` is a unique ID for the resource.

:::caution Limited information
For security reasons, webhook notifications **include limited information**.
You can always **query the API** for more information about these events.
:::

### Idempotent process {#event-handling-idempotent}

Due to `at-least once` delivery, a webhook endpoint might receive the same event notification multiple times.
Therefore, Swan strongly suggests **making your event processing idempotent**, essentially making sure your response to webhook notifications can be repeated multiple times without producing different outcomes.

For example, you might log the events you've processed, and then not process events that are already logged.

### Manage webhooks with the API {#event-handling-api}

You can manage your webhooks with the API.

1. **Add** a new webhook subscription: [`addWebhookSubscription`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-webhook-subscription/).
1. **Update** a webhook subscription: [`updateWebhookSubscription`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/update-webhook-subscription/).
1. **Remove** a webhook subscription: [`removeWebhookSubscription`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/remove-webhook-subscription/).
1. **Trigger a retry** of a failed webhook: [`replayWebhookEvent`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/replay-webhook-event/).
1. Subscriptions:
    1. Get a **single subscription**: [`webhookSubscription`](https://api-reference.swan.io/queries/webhook-subscription/).
    1. Get a **list of all subscriptions**: [`webhookSubscriptions`](https://api-reference.swan.io/queries/webhook-subscriptions/).
1. Event logs:
    1. Get **one event log**: [`webhookEventLog`](https://api-reference.swan.io/queries/webhook-event-log/).
    1. Get a **log of all events**: [`webhookEventLogs`](https://api-reference.swan.io/queries/webhook-event-logs/).

### Event order {#event-handling-order}

Webhook notifications aren't always delivered in the order the events occur.
If you want to receive webhooks in a specific order, you'll need to implement logic on your end.

For example, consider the regular card payment flow, which is always **Authorization** to **Debit** to **Released**.
The flow generates the following webhook events:

- Authorization: `Transaction.Pending`
- Debit: `Transaction.Booked`
- Released: `Transaction.Released`

You'll receive the `Transaction.Pending` as soon as the authorization is created.

However, you can receive `Transaction.Booked` and `Transaction.Released` webhooks in any order, even though the flow is always Debit, then Released.

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'linear' } } }%%
flowchart LR
    A(<i>Authorization</i><br/>Transaction.Pending) --> P((Possibilities))
    P --> B(<i>Debit</i><br/>Transaction.Booked) --> D(<i>Released</i><br/>Transaction.Released)
    P --> C(<i>Released</i><br/>Transaction.Released) --> E(<i>Debit</i><br/>Transaction.Booked)
    style P fill:#dfedf2,stroke:#4d8296
    style C fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
    style D fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
    style B fill:#f6ddcc,stroke:#c12236
    style E fill:#f6ddcc,stroke:#c12236
```

## List of webhook events {#events}

The first part of the `eventType` will tell you what resources to query in an API call. In the following table, you will find all the event types and examples of their functional triggers.

### [Account holders](../../topics/onboarding/account-holders/index.mdx) {#events-account-holders}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `AccountHolder.Created` | Onboarding was finalized |
| `AccountHolder.Updated` | Swan updated a banking verification status |

### [Account onboarding](../../topics/onboarding/index.mdx) {#events-onboarding}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `Onboarding.Created` | New onboarding was created either through the API or the no-code interface |
| `Onboarding.Updated` | Onboarding was either finalized, or changed because new data was added to it |

### [Account memberships](../../topics/accounts/memberships/index.mdx) {#events-account-memberships}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `AccountMembership.Bound` | User was bound with the account membership |
| `AccountMembership.Created` | New account membership was created |
| `AccountMembership.Disabled` | Account membership was disabled |
| `AccountMembership.Resumed` | Suspended account membership was resumed  |
| `AccountMembership.Suspended` | Account membership was suspended  |
| `AccountMembership.Updated` | Account membership was updated by an action |

### [Accounts](../../topics/accounts/index.mdx) {#events-accounts}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `Account.Created` | Onboarding was finalized |
| `Account.Updated` | Account attribute was changed |
| `Account.Closing` | Account is closing |
| `Account.Closed` | Account was closed |
| `AccountStatement.Generated` | Account statement was generated and available for download |

### [Billing](../../topics/accounts/billing/index.mdx) {#events-billing}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `AccountInvoice.Generated` | New invoice was generated and available for download |
| `AccountInvoice.Updated` | Invoice or refund note was updated |

### [Capital deposits](../../topics/capital-deposits/index.mdx) {#events-capital-deposits}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `CapitalDepositCaseEvent.Created` | Capital deposit case was created |
| `CapitalDepositCaseEvent.Updated` | Capital deposit case was updated |
| `CapitalDepositDocument.Created` | Document for a capital deposit case or a shareholder was created |
| `CapitalDepositDocument.Updated` | Document for a capital deposit case or a shareholder was updated |
| `Shareholder.Created` | Shareholder was created |
| `Shareholder.Updated` | Shareholder was updated |

### [Cards](../../topics/cards/index.mdx) {#events-cards}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `Card.Created` | New virtual card was created |
| `Card.Updated` | Physical card was printed, spending limit was updated, and more (doesn't not include PIN notifications) |

### [Consent](../../topics/users/consent/index.mdx) {#events-consent}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `Consent.Canceled` | Consent was canceled by the Partner |
| `Consent.Created` | Consent was created for a sensitive operation |
| `Consent.Expired` | Consent expired without being refused or granted |
| `Consent.Granted` | User accepted a sensitive operation  |
| `Consent.Refused` | User refused a sensitive operation  |
| `Consent.Started` | ConsentURL was opened |

### [Funding](../../topics/accounts/funding/index.mdx) {#events-funding}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `FundingLimitSettingsChangeRequest.Created` | Funding limit settings change request was created |
| `FundingLimitSettingsChangeRequest.Updated` | Funding limit settings change request was updated |
| `FundingSource.Created` | Funding source was created |
| `FundingSource.Updated` | Funding source was updated |

### [Merchants](../../topics/merchants/index.mdx) {#events-merchants}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `MerchantProfile.Created` | Merchant profile was created |
| `MerchantProfile.Updated` | Merchant profile was updated |

### [Payments](../../topics/payments/index.mdx) {#events-payments}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `ReceivedDirectDebitMandate.Created` | Received direct debit mandate was created either through the API or automatically by Swan |
| `ReceivedDirectDebitMandate.Updated` | Received direct debit mandate was updated |
| `StandingOrder.Canceled` | Standing order was canceled |
| `StandingOrder.Scheduled` | Standing order was scheduled |

### [Supporting documents](../../topics/accounts/documents/index.mdx) {#events-documents}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `SupportingDocumentCollection.Created` | A new supporting document collection was created |
| `SupportingDocumentCollection.Updated` | A supporting document collection was either finalized or updated |

### [Transactions](../../topics/payments/index.mdx#transactions) {#events-transactions}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `Transaction.Booked` | Transaction was completed and will appear on the account statement |
| `Transaction.Canceled` | Upcoming direct debit was canceled |
| `Transaction.Deleted` | Scheduled direct debit was deleted  |
| `Transaction.Enriched` | [Enriched transaction information](../../topics/payments/cards/index.mdx#enriched) was received for a card transaction outside of a status update |
| `Transaction.Pending` | Outgoing SEPA Credit Transfer was processed and is waiting for the next SEPA batch, a card authorization was accepted, and more |
| `Transaction.Rejected` | Transaction was rejected for compliance reasons |
| `Transaction.Released` | Transaction was released |
| `Transaction.Upcoming` | Transaction was booked for a future date |
| `TransactionStatement.Generated` | [Transaction statement](../../topics/payments/index.mdx#transactions-statements) was generated successfully |

### [Users](../../topics/users/index.mdx) {#events-users}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `User.Joined` | User joins your project |
| `User.Updated` | User's information was updated, such as their phone number |
| `User.Deactivated` | User was deactivated<br /><br />*The phone number associated with the deactivated user's Swan account can now be used to sign up a different user.* |

Commit message:

add number of seconds Swan servers awaits for a webhook response.

docs/developers/using-api/webhooks.mdx, after:

---
title: Webhooks
---

# Webhooks

import WebhooksDefinition from '../../topics/definitions/_webhooks.mdx';

<WebhooksDefinition />

## Overview {#overview}

You're aware of events you request or that your user's request directly from you.
Consider the [basic API flow](../index.mdx#overview) for reference.
However, **not all events are under your control**; some events are triggered by external parties.
When external events occur, resources are updated in Swan, but you aren't notified by default.

If you **subscribe to webhooks for these external events**, Swan initiates a request on your endpoint and you receive webhook notifications.
Requests to your endpoint **must be answered** with a 200 OK HTTP response.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
participant P as Partner (you)
participant S as Swan
participant E as External event
    E -->> S: Updates an API resource
    S ->> P: Sends request to your configured endpoints
    par        
        P ->> S: Returns 200 OK HTTP
        P ->> S: Calls query for resource
    end
    S ->> P: Returns resource
```

### Response time {#overview-response}

Webhooks operate with a near-real-time efficiency, typically delivering responses **within seconds** of the event.

It's worth clarifying that webhooks don't actively *respond* but autonomously send information to your system, potentially introducing delays of up to 10 minutes after the actual action occurs.

### Automatic retry {#overview-retry}

If Swan encounters an error during a webhook request, the request is retried every **30 seconds** and up to **7 times**.

Swan servers will wait for 15 seconds for a response (5 seconds in Sandbox mode), otherwise it will consider the webhook attempt as failed and will proceed with a retry if the maximum number of attempts has not been reached.

If all retries fail, you can retry it manually by selecting **Retry** from your **Dashboard** > **Developers** > **Webhooks**.
You can also trigger the webhook manually at any time.

### Subscription limits {#subscription-limits}

In order to avoid overconsumption caused by too many subscriptions to the same webhook event, there's a limit on how many subscriptions you can enable per event.
Please consider unsubscribing if you have multiple subscriptions to the same event.

The following limits apply:

- **Sandbox**: 10 subscriptions per event
- **Live**: 5 subscriptions per event

:::warning Legacy subscriptions
All webhook subscriptions enabled before these limits were established remain intact.
However, you won't be able to add additional subscriptions for the same event.

For example, if you had 12 subscriptions to a Sandbox event:

- All 12 subscriptions remain active.
- To add a new subscription to that event, delete 3 existing subscriptions first.
:::

### Security {#overview-security}

Webhooks aren't the most secure communication method, and banking data can be sensitive.
Therefore, **Swan never uses webhooks to send sensitive information** that requires authentication to view.

If an event involves sensitive information, the webhook only includes a notification that an event occurred.
You need to use your Dashboard or the API to actually review the information.

:::note Swan's webhook IP addresses
If you have security restrictions in your infrastructure, you might need to add the following IPs to your allowlist for both Sandbox and Live environments.

- 52.210.172.90
- 52.51.125.72
- 54.194.47.212
:::

## Event handling {#event-handling}

Handling webhooks is important to make sure your integration's business logic works as expected.

### Delivery method {#event-handling-delivery}

Swan webhooks are designed following the `at-least once` delivery method.
Taking transactions as an example, the `at-least once` delivery means that for the same `eventId`, you might receive more than one notification.

Swan chose `at-least once` delivery deliberately over the `at-most once` delivery; it's better you receive the information multiple times instead of not at all, which can occur with `at-most once` in case of technical error.

### Notification content {#event-handling-info}

Webhook notifications contain the following information in a `POST` request:

```
{
  "eventType": "Transaction.Booked",
  "eventId": "$YOUR_EVENT_ID",
  "eventDate": "2021-08-18T09:35:46.673Z",
  "projectId": "$YOUR_PROJECT_ID",
  "resourceId": "$YOUR_RESOURCE_ID"
}
```

Note that `eventType` is the action performed on which resource type, `eventId` is a unique ID for this event, and  `resourceId` is a unique ID for the resource.

:::caution Limited information
For security reasons, webhook notifications **include limited information**.
You can always **query the API** for more information about these events.
:::

### Idempotent process {#event-handling-idempotent}

Due to `at-least once` delivery, a webhook endpoint might receive the same event notification multiple times.
Therefore, Swan strongly suggests **making your event processing idempotent**, essentially making sure your response to webhook notifications can be repeated multiple times without producing different outcomes.

For example, you might log the events you've processed, and then not process events that are already logged.

### Manage webhooks with the API {#event-handling-api}

You can manage your webhooks with the API.

1. **Add** a new webhook subscription: [`addWebhookSubscription`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/add-webhook-subscription/).
1. **Update** a webhook subscription: [`updateWebhookSubscription`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/update-webhook-subscription/).
1. **Remove** a webhook subscription: [`removeWebhookSubscription`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/remove-webhook-subscription/).
1. **Trigger a retry** of a failed webhook: [`replayWebhookEvent`](https://api-reference.swan.io/mutations/replay-webhook-event/).
1. Subscriptions:
    1. Get a **single subscription**: [`webhookSubscription`](https://api-reference.swan.io/queries/webhook-subscription/).
    1. Get a **list of all subscriptions**: [`webhookSubscriptions`](https://api-reference.swan.io/queries/webhook-subscriptions/).
1. Event logs:
    1. Get **one event log**: [`webhookEventLog`](https://api-reference.swan.io/queries/webhook-event-log/).
    1. Get a **log of all events**: [`webhookEventLogs`](https://api-reference.swan.io/queries/webhook-event-logs/).

### Event order {#event-handling-order}

Webhook notifications aren't always delivered in the order the events occur.
If you want to receive webhooks in a specific order, you'll need to implement logic on your end.

For example, consider the regular card payment flow, which is always **Authorization** to **Debit** to **Released**.
The flow generates the following webhook events:

- Authorization: `Transaction.Pending`
- Debit: `Transaction.Booked`
- Released: `Transaction.Released`

You'll receive the `Transaction.Pending` as soon as the authorization is created.

However, you can receive `Transaction.Booked` and `Transaction.Released` webhooks in any order, even though the flow is always Debit, then Released.

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'linear' } } }%%
flowchart LR
    A(<i>Authorization</i><br/>Transaction.Pending) --> P((Possibilities))
    P --> B(<i>Debit</i><br/>Transaction.Booked) --> D(<i>Released</i><br/>Transaction.Released)
    P --> C(<i>Released</i><br/>Transaction.Released) --> E(<i>Debit</i><br/>Transaction.Booked)
    style P fill:#dfedf2,stroke:#4d8296
    style C fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
    style D fill:#fffdf4,stroke:#cca922
    style B fill:#f6ddcc,stroke:#c12236
    style E fill:#f6ddcc,stroke:#c12236
```

## List of webhook events {#events}

The first part of the `eventType` will tell you what resources to query in an API call. In the following table, you will find all the event types and examples of their functional triggers.

### [Account holders](../../topics/onboarding/account-holders/index.mdx) {#events-account-holders}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `AccountHolder.Created` | Onboarding was finalized |
| `AccountHolder.Updated` | Swan updated a banking verification status |

### [Account onboarding](../../topics/onboarding/index.mdx) {#events-onboarding}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `Onboarding.Created` | New onboarding was created either through the API or the no-code interface |
| `Onboarding.Updated` | Onboarding was either finalized, or changed because new data was added to it |

### [Account memberships](../../topics/accounts/memberships/index.mdx) {#events-account-memberships}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `AccountMembership.Bound` | User was bound with the account membership |
| `AccountMembership.Created` | New account membership was created |
| `AccountMembership.Disabled` | Account membership was disabled |
| `AccountMembership.Resumed` | Suspended account membership was resumed  |
| `AccountMembership.Suspended` | Account membership was suspended  |
| `AccountMembership.Updated` | Account membership was updated by an action |

### [Accounts](../../topics/accounts/index.mdx) {#events-accounts}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `Account.Created` | Onboarding was finalized |
| `Account.Updated` | Account attribute was changed |
| `Account.Closing` | Account is closing |
| `Account.Closed` | Account was closed |
| `AccountStatement.Generated` | Account statement was generated and available for download |

### [Billing](../../topics/accounts/billing/index.mdx) {#events-billing}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `AccountInvoice.Generated` | New invoice was generated and available for download |
| `AccountInvoice.Updated` | Invoice or refund note was updated |

### [Capital deposits](../../topics/capital-deposits/index.mdx) {#events-capital-deposits}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `CapitalDepositCaseEvent.Created` | Capital deposit case was created |
| `CapitalDepositCaseEvent.Updated` | Capital deposit case was updated |
| `CapitalDepositDocument.Created` | Document for a capital deposit case or a shareholder was created |
| `CapitalDepositDocument.Updated` | Document for a capital deposit case or a shareholder was updated |
| `Shareholder.Created` | Shareholder was created |
| `Shareholder.Updated` | Shareholder was updated |

### [Cards](../../topics/cards/index.mdx) {#events-cards}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `Card.Created` | New virtual card was created |
| `Card.Updated` | Physical card was printed, spending limit was updated, and more (doesn't not include PIN notifications) |

### [Consent](../../topics/users/consent/index.mdx) {#events-consent}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `Consent.Canceled` | Consent was canceled by the Partner |
| `Consent.Created` | Consent was created for a sensitive operation |
| `Consent.Expired` | Consent expired without being refused or granted |
| `Consent.Granted` | User accepted a sensitive operation  |
| `Consent.Refused` | User refused a sensitive operation  |
| `Consent.Started` | ConsentURL was opened |

### [Funding](../../topics/accounts/funding/index.mdx) {#events-funding}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `FundingLimitSettingsChangeRequest.Created` | Funding limit settings change request was created |
| `FundingLimitSettingsChangeRequest.Updated` | Funding limit settings change request was updated |
| `FundingSource.Created` | Funding source was created |
| `FundingSource.Updated` | Funding source was updated |

### [Merchants](../../topics/merchants/index.mdx) {#events-merchants}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `MerchantProfile.Created` | Merchant profile was created |
| `MerchantProfile.Updated` | Merchant profile was updated |

### [Payments](../../topics/payments/index.mdx) {#events-payments}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `ReceivedDirectDebitMandate.Created` | Received direct debit mandate was created either through the API or automatically by Swan |
| `ReceivedDirectDebitMandate.Updated` | Received direct debit mandate was updated |
| `StandingOrder.Canceled` | Standing order was canceled |
| `StandingOrder.Scheduled` | Standing order was scheduled |

### [Supporting documents](../../topics/accounts/documents/index.mdx) {#events-documents}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `SupportingDocumentCollection.Created` | A new supporting document collection was created |
| `SupportingDocumentCollection.Updated` | A supporting document collection was either finalized or updated |

### [Transactions](../../topics/payments/index.mdx#transactions) {#events-transactions}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `Transaction.Booked` | Transaction was completed and will appear on the account statement |
| `Transaction.Canceled` | Upcoming direct debit was canceled |
| `Transaction.Deleted` | Scheduled direct debit was deleted  |
| `Transaction.Enriched` | [Enriched transaction information](../../topics/payments/cards/index.mdx#enriched) was received for a card transaction outside of a status update |
| `Transaction.Pending` | Outgoing SEPA Credit Transfer was processed and is waiting for the next SEPA batch, a card authorization was accepted, and more |
| `Transaction.Rejected` | Transaction was rejected for compliance reasons |
| `Transaction.Released` | Transaction was released |
| `Transaction.Upcoming` | Transaction was booked for a future date |
| `TransactionStatement.Generated` | [Transaction statement](../../topics/payments/index.mdx#transactions-statements) was generated successfully |

### [Users](../../topics/users/index.mdx) {#events-users}

| `eventType` | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| `User.Joined` | User joins your project |
| `User.Updated` | User's information was updated, such as their phone number |
| `User.Deactivated` | User was deactivated<br /><br />*The phone number associated with the deactivated user's Swan account can now be used to sign up a different user.* |
